Welcome back again to this update and expansion to the HexCrawl Shadows
of Brimstone™ homebrew variant. I want to thank all the members of the
BoardGameGeek Brimstone community that have contacted me since the first set
of HexCrawl material went out with words of support and encouragement. This
took quite a bit longer than I intended, but was spurred on by the release of the
fantastic Frontier Town expansion. It was impossible to not see the potential for
HexCrawl there along with some other ideas for an expansion and update.
Much Thanks to Flying Frog Productions for their work in producing
Shadows of Brimstone and all the great expansions that have been following.
Here’s looking forward to what Adventures await.
-Graeme Henson
Shadows of Brimstone™ is the intellectual property of Flying Frog
Productions®. The HexCrawl map is based off of the excellent work
of the awesome illustrators at FFP. HexCrawl is a non-commercial,
fan-made expansion.
Text, design, and layout of HexCrawl by Graeme Henson. Special
Thanks goes out to all who commented on the Shadows of
Brimstone BoardGameGeek forums for helping to brainstorm ideas,
provide feedback/critiques, and generally provide an audience for
such a crazy idea in the first place. Commenters included: Angelus
Seniores, Dennis Schwarz, Vadim Golembo, Gavin Downing,
Bernie Roessler, Johnny W, Julien Le Jeune, Elliott Harding, Richard
Wagoner, kell zilla, Darrin, C B, Herb Leist, Chris Seidler, Annie
Heim, Greg Romans, and Klutz among others. Some awesome
individuals contributed to proofreading: Targanth Phelandir, Dwayne
Hendrickson, Ricardo Alaimo, and others. Many of the ideas for
the HexCrawl campaign were also generated by Kevin O’Mara,
while Mike Daneman suggested the simplification for the movement
system. Additional support from Louis K. Barrera for Town Build
mechanics. There were many, many others that have directly or
indirectly contributed to HexCrawl and if they are not mentioned
here it is because of my own faulty memory and is purely
unintentional. Suffice to say, I did not and could not have done this
without the BGG community helping out.
The Devil, John Moulton is an excellent Weird West story game written
by John Wedig of Teapot Dome Games.
It can be found at: http://nickwedig.libraryofhighmoon.com/2014/04/
the-devil-john-moulton/
Most images pulled from Wikipedia Commons, some sketches
illustrated by Tony Oliver. Most other images are pulled from Flying
Frog Productions own Shadows of Brimstone artwork, most notably
from Brandom Gilliam & Ralph Horsley.
Depictions of Native Americans are intended to fit within the Old
West genre, sometimes from the perspective of Euro-Americans.
Often times these two groups came into conflict and the Euro-
American settlers that came and took tribal lands looked down upon
the Indian tribes they were stealing from, whom they viewed as
“savages”. No offense is meant towards Native Americans in any of
the depictions herein, I’m simply trying to present a gritty, Old West
feel to the game by avoiding whitewashing history, though nothing
in this is based off of any particular historical events.
Many of the ideas for the Wilderness Encounters were based off of
forum threads and fan-made resources from Pinnacle Entertainment’s
Deadlands: The Weird West, a Savage Worlds campaign setting:
1,000 Random Encounters - http://www.peginc.com/forum/
viewtopic.php?t=21272
Deadlands Random Encounter Generator - http://savagepedia.
wikispaces.com/file/view/DL%20Random%20Encounters.
xlsx/502757074/DL%20Random%20Encounters.xlsx
1,001 Plots / Places / NPCs / etc. for western
adventures... - http://www.peginc.com/forum/viewtopic.
php?t=10216&postdays=0&postorder=asc&highlight=
plots&start=0
Questions? Concerns? Critiques? Ideas? Hate mail? Fan mail?
Cease and Desists? Court Orders? Job Opportunities? Marriage
Proposals? Money Laundering Schemes?
paddirn@gmail.comCONTENTS
4................ Overview
6................ Adjusted Rules
8................ Overland Map
12................ Encounters
12................ Transportation
13................ Frontier Towns
20................ Expanded Combat Options
21................ Overland Combat
22................ Mounted Combat
24................ Human Enemies/Villains
26................ Missions
40................ Jobs Board
42................ Campaigns
48................ Form and Void (Short Story Campaign)
3OVERVIEW
HexCrawl is an expansion to Shadows of Brimstone™
that takes your Adventures out from the Mines and Other
Worlds that the Heroes are used to exploring and out into the
wild, untamed region around the ruins of Brimstone. Heroes
will be able to travel around these lands and visit new Towns
in search of lucrative Jobs and dangerous Missions.
HexCrawl
Adventure Book
By Graeme Henson
GAME CONTENTS
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
HexCrawl Overland Map
HexCrawl Adventure Book
HexCrawl Encounters Book
Tracking Sheets (Town, Mine, Campaign)
Expanded Injury & Madness Charts
Terrain Map Tiles
Reference Sheets
Item Sheets / Tokens
Occultist Class Info
required: one twenty-sided (D20) die and two ten-sided
(2D10) dice. If you don’t have these dice. Put down this
manual, go over to a corner, and promise yourself you
won’t cry. Then cry.
Set Up
Due to the nature of HexCrawl, this game is geared
towards players wanting a more long-term campaign
experience, possibly with some RPG character building added
in. Depending on the campaign style the group decides to
go with, the Posse may want to begin in a Town, rather than
starting right off on a Mine Adventure. You can either roll up
randomly on the Town Chart or just pick a Town to start in.
When the starting Town is decided upon, the group will
also want to go through the Town Setup process (see the
‘Frontier Towns’ section later on for more info). However,
you may want to give the group some starting gold if
beginning a campaign in a Town, otherwise just begin a
Mission as normal.
Overland Map
The HexCrawl Overland Map is based off of the original
map contained within the Core Game Adventure Books. This
map details many unique locations and potential areas to
explore, but the game itself never really explores these areas,
leaving that all up to the player’s imagination. What HexCrawl
attempts to do is to add mechanics for defining these places
and then gives the Heroes a reason to go exploring (apart
from simply leveling up and acquiring Loot).
Persistent Towns
In HexCrawl, Towns exist in the dangerous region
around Brimstone, where settlements are damaged and
destroyed on a regular basis. Normally in Shadows of
Brimstone, it’s assumed that the Heroes are visiting new
Towns all the time or that at some point the people of these
Towns rebuild that which was lost. Not so in HexCrawl,
where Locations and Towns are permanently destroyed,
forcing the Heroes to live with their failures.
Towns are not always welcoming to all and sometimes
have hostile inhabitants that may force your Posse to look
elsewhere for supplies. Over time the Posse may become
desperate and have to visit places they would normally avoid.
Playing HexCrawl is meant to be a process of reduction, of
greater and greater limitations that force the Posse to have to
make hard decisions. This isn’t meant to be like High Fantasy
Dungeon Crawlers where the Heroes save the day and
everyone lives happily ever after, this is Lovecraftian Horror.
This is Brimstone.
4Wilderness & Terrain Encounters
Although you’re welcome to use the original Travel
Hazard Chart or Expanded Travel Hazard Chart from the
Core Game or the Frontier Town expansion, there is a D100
Wilderness Encounters Chart found in the HexCrawl Encounters
Book that provides a new set of encounters for the Posse to
run into while exploring the region around Brimstone. These
encounters are often gritty and tough, sometimes with no
right way to handle them. In addition to facing off against
the nightmarish creatures that spew forth from the Gates,
the Posse will also have to contend with Native Americans,
mutants, religious zealots and a host of other earthly
challenges. Terrain Encounters are new special encounters that
are sometimes triggered when performing the Search action
while on the Overland map and change depending on what
type of terrain the Posse is traveling over.
Jobs Board
The Jobs Board is a D100 chart also found in the
HexCrawl Encounters Book that provides loads of both
mundane and epic side quests for the Posse to undertake.
These can be as simple as delivering goods across the map
or may develop into Missions in their own right. These
Jobs provide the impetus for the Posse to travel across the
landscape and find Adventures, in addition to the important
things in life: Gear, Gold, and Artifacts!
New Enemies - Human Villains
Not only do the Heroes face
off against Lovecraftian nightmares
from other dimensions, but also their
fellow man! Each of the original
classes have been converted into
Enemies that can be fought against
during your adventures in the
Mines. These can be rival Posses,
Epic gang leaders, bounty hunters,
possessed humans, or even just
random battles with some nasty
individuals lookin’ to fight.
New Missions
A set of 6 new Missions have been written for HexCrawl
for the Heroes to test their mettle against.
New Items
A plethora of new items have been written up that are
available in the regular parts of Town, but some are only
available under certain conditions when a Town allows you
to purchase Advanced Gear & Services. In addition, all the
Horses have been given combat stats to allow for mounted
combat while fighting on the Overland terrain battlemaps or
the Frontier Town battlemap.
New Campaign Options
In addition to the brutally tough Mine Blast campaign
style (formerly known as the “HexCrawl Campaign”), there
are also some additional campaign styles and options that the
Posse can try their hand at. The Short Story campaign won’t
last nearly as long, but provides a more structured narrative
experience for the Posse based around the Missions provided
in the Adventure Book from the City of the Ancients Core Set.
New Class - Occultist
A new class can be played, the Occultist. The Occultist
consults ancient tomes and delves into the darkest parts of his
mind in his quest for power. His fellow adventurers won’t be
sure which is worse, the monsters they face or this traveling
companion who taps into his own insane mind for abilities
that man was not meant to know.
Expanded Injury & Madness Charts
New Overland Actions
As the Heroes travel across the map, they’ll be able to
perform new, Common actions, as well as other, unique
actions based on their class keywords. These actions can either
boost the Posse in different ways or provide additional travel
options to aid them in getting across the map quicker.
New Combat Options
With the Heroes no longer restricted to adventuring down
in the dark, cramped Mines, they’ve now to contend with Threats
on the surface world. New rules have been written to handle
regular and mounted combat on the Overland map, in addition
to new combat actions and new Terrain cards for adding objects
to the Map Tiles that can affect your tactics. Some generic terrain
map tiles have been created, based off of artwork created by the
talented Madcowchef from DeviantArt, but players are free to use
any other Battlemaps or Terrain tiles they have.
5
The original Injury and Madness Charts have been
updated and expanded to include even more horrific physical
and mental ailments that can befall the Heroes.ADJUSTED RULES
Although many of the same rules from the Core Game apply in HexCrawl, some rules will require revising and/or
clarification in order to mesh with the rest of the HexCrawl rules. Some are needed for gameplay balance or else the game
becomes too hard or too easy, though you’re free to modify or ignore these as you see fit.
Ending an Adventure / Healing
In the basic game, the Posse is reset to full Health and
Sanity and 1 Grit at the end of every Adventure, no matter if
the Heroes fail or succeed. Not so in HexCrawl. The Posse
gets one Catch Your Breath roll, regardless of whether or not
the Posse had a Fight at the end of the Mission, and gains
back 1 Grit. These are in addition to the standard Catch Your
Breath rolls at the ends of Fights as normal, no matter where
those Fights occur (in the Mines or Overland). Damage is
meant to be persistent for the Heroes as they travel.
Occult / Science
‘Occult’ has been added as part of the Occultist class
and ‘Science’ is intended for future classes. ‘Science’ and
‘Mutant’ will sometimes occur together, though they are
not equivalent to each other.
Definitions
In order to play HexCrawl, we need to redefine some
key terms so that we’re on the same page when it comes to
explaining some concepts in the future:
At the End of Missions, each Hero gets one
standard Catch Your Breath roll, gains 1 Grit and
checks for Dark Stone Corruption as normal, but
does NOT reset to full Health and Sanity.
Adventure
The period of time from when a Job or Mission is picked
up until the time it is completed (whether or not it is
actually successful).
Items/Abilities whose effects list a limitation such as “Once
Per Adventure” or “One Adventure” are effective up until
the group finishes out their current Adventure, including
any Town Visits, travel time, and time on a Mission. If the
Posse is not on a Job or Mission, then that Item/Ability
may be used once until their next Adventure starts. Yes, this
makes no sense if the group spends a month just traveling
around before their next Adventure... Just don’t do that.
Additional Keywords
Some new keywords have been added to Hexcrawl for
use in Encounters and in Towns. In some cases these new
keywords may be added or removed from a Hero multiple
times throughout their career.
Mutant
Job
Heroes with any mutations now automatically carry the
keyword ‘Mutant’. This does not change anything else
about how mutations work, but comes into play in some
situations within HexCrawl.
A type of Adventure that can take place in Towns, on
the Overland map, in Mines, in Other Worlds, while on
Missions, or in any combination of those places. Some
Jobs may lead into Missions, in which case the Posse is on
both a Job and a Mission. Jobs are only picked up through
the Jobs Board, located in each Town.
Kemosabe / Paleface
‘Kemosabe’ and ‘Paleface’ are two mutually exclusive
keywords that can be picked up in certain Encounters.
These are opposing keywords meant to suggest racial/
cultural tensions between Euro-American Settlers and
Native American Indians. In some cases they become
friends with each other and earn the respect of the Indians
(Kemosabe), while in other cases they are enemies
of the Tribe and cursed (Paleface). The ‘Kemosabe’
keyword is considered equal to ‘Tribal’ and Heroes with
the ‘Kemosabe’ keyword may use any items only meant
for ‘Tribal’ Heroes as long as they hold the ‘Kemosabe’
keyword. The same is NOT true for ‘Paleface’ and
‘Frontier’ (though some situations will affect Heroes with
both of those keywords).
Mission
A type of Adventure that usually requires the Posse to enter
into a Mine to begin, though some Missions may happen
as a result of failing other Missions or may be forced onto
the Posse as a result of a Job or Encounter.
Town Visit or Town Stay
6
Both terms are interchangeable. Only counts as a Town
Visit if the Heroes enter the Town, just Searching a Town
hex does not count as entering a Town. After the Posse
ends their Town Visit, they must wait one full day before
entering the Town again.The Drifter
The Drifter class has a Special Ability called Danger
Magnet that affects the number of Traveling Hazards that the
group encounters when traveling to Town. This ability should
be revised to read the following when playing HexCrawl:
Danger Magnet - All Enemies Gain 1 Elite ability for free.
When traveling on the Overland map, roll an additional
D8 for each Drifter in the Posse and take the lowest
result when determining Wilderness Encounters.
Note that in the Mine Blast campaign style, these extra
Wilderness Encounters that you roll up do NOT require
additional Overland Hold Back the Darkness rolls. You only roll
for that if your regular daily roll at the start of the day comes
back with a Wilderness Encounter.
Random Directions
Frequently you will be told to do something in a random
direction when in the Mines and on the Overland map. Use
the following diagrams if you need to roll a random direction.
D8
Random
Space
Diagram
1
2
6
D6
3
5
4
Random
Hex
Diagram
7OVERLAND MAP
While most of the Missions that the Heroes engage in will happen in the Mines and visits will always occur inside of
Frontier Towns, a look over the HexCrawl map will reveal that sometimes there’s quite a bit of distance between the two.
Getting from point A to Point B will require a bit more than just rolling on the Travel Hazard Chart in HexCrawl.
7mi
6mi
3.5mi
Each hex on the HexCrawl Overland Map is considered to be 6 miles wide from flat side to flat side.
Each edge of the hex is 3.5 miles long and the hex itself is roughly 7 miles tall from opposite points.
Players can use the Hero marker to track the posse’s position on the Overland map.
Traveling
Heroes will travel on the Overland map one hex at a time,
spending Move points (MP) each hex, these Move points are
used by the Posse as a whole to move across the Overland map
and are not the same as those used in combat. It will become
important for the Posse to keep an eye on the terrain itself that
they move over. Terrain will be key in determining how far the
posse can move in a single day’s worth of travel. Depending on
the type of campaign you with to play, the group may want to
track how much in-game time has passed to get a sense of how
long their campaign has gone on for. In some cases, timing
will be necessary for Encounters or Jobs that have established
time limits to follow.
Easy terrain (1 MP)
Hexes with roads, railroad tracks, or undestroyed Settlements.
Medium terrain (2 MP)
By default all terrain is considered Medium terrain unless some
other feature on the map modifies it to be Tough or Easy.
Essentially all blank hexes are Medium terrain.
While traveling Overland, the Heroes will find that some
routes are easier to travel than others and take less time, while
others will require more time and open the Posse to a higher
chance of Wilderness Encounters. Terrain type has a direct impact
on how far Heroes can travel across the map each day, with
each type of terrain having a different cost in Move points to
move into that hex.
The Heroes may also take certain actions to modify their
Overland movement. There are both common and unique
keyword abilities and also some Encounters that will provide
boosts (or hindrances) to Overland Movement for the Posse.
Tough terrain (3 MP)
Any hexes where more than half of any kind of special terrain
feature is present in the hex (Mines, mountains, hills, rivers,
forests, swamps, desert, Destroyed Settlements/Town Ruins, etc)
is considered Tough terrain.
Determining terrain can be tricky at times and in those
cases it is left up to the player’s judgment as to what type of
terrain a certain hex is. Note that in cases where Easy terrain
features overlay other terrain, the Easy terrain takes precedence.
So when roads or railroads overlay things like rivers or
mountain ranges, those hexes are considered Easy terrain.
8Rest
BASIC OVERLAND ACTIONS
Heroes may now perform various actions while traveling
on the Overland Map. These Overland actions each have an
associated Move Point (MP) cost and may slow the Posse
down, but can help in certain situations. Unless otherwise
stated, these abilities (including Camp abilities) can be used
multiple times per day/camp.
Move
All Heroes start off with a Basic Horse as a mount,
however in some situations, one or more Heroes may lose
their mount and will have to make their way on foot. If this
happens, the entire Posse slows down to match the pace of any
horseless Heroes. In some cases the Posse may even want to
split the group, in which case movement will need to be tracked
separately, along with any Wilderness Encounter rolls.
Move Points per Day:
Horseback		
On Foot			
In the Mines the Posse has increased abilities to heal due
to the terrifying stress that their mind and bodies are under.
Adrenaline allows them to recover from seemingly life-threatening
injuries. On the surface world however, when not faced with
existential threats to their survival, the Heroes must actually take
time to rest in order to heal themselves of their injuries and
regain some sense of sanity. Resting costs 1 MP and each Hero
in the Posse may Heal any mix of D6 Wounds or Sanity.
Automatic healing abilities like those from the Saloon Girl don’t
automatically heal the Posse while traveling.
Press On
The Posse may push themselves to travel further by
Pressing On. If each Hero in the Posse spends 1 Grit, the Posse
gains an additional +2 Move points that can only be used that
day and may only be used for the basic Move action. You may
not perform a Horsemeat March and Press On in the same day.
Camp
6 MP/day
5 MP/day*
(*Wilderness Encounters on 1 or 2)
At the beginning of each day, the Posse rolls to see if it has a
Wilderness Encounter that day, then refreshes any Move points that
were spent from the previous day and may travel up to its maximum
Move points for the day. The group may stop early if they would
like or even take some additional actions. Unused Move points do
not carry over from one day to the next, they are lost if not used.
Search
While on the Overland map, the Posse may stop to explore
their current area and just try to see what they can find. In some
cases the Posse may find something of use, while in others they may
come up empty-handed and just wasted part of their day. Some Jobs
will require that the Posse Search the Overland map to complete
their requirements.
To Search a hex, spend 1 MP and reveal an Exploration
Token for the current hex you are on. Each hex may only be
Searched once per day, however you may return to hexes that
were Searched on previous days and Search them again later on.
Encounters and Growing Dread Encounters are rolled for on
the relevant Terrain Encounters Chart. Attack and Ambush results
take place on a Terrain battlemap. Clue Icons revealed only apply
to active Jobs. Door/Gate icons may be used for some Jobs, but
otherwise carry no meaning when Searching.
The Posse may camp down for the day and each Hero
may Heal 2D6 Wounds or Sanity (any mix). To Camp, the
Posse spends 2 MP and ends all Movement for the day. The
Posse may not take any more Move actions, though they still
have access to their remaining Move points to spend on other
actions. Some classes may also perform special Keyword
Actions while Camping.
Basic Overland Actions:
Move			(1/2/3 MP)
Move one hex per use.
Search			(1 MP)
Reveal one Exploration Token for the current
hex the Posse is on.
Rest			(1 MP)
Each Hero Heals D6 Wounds/Sanity (any mix).
Press On		
(1 Grit/Hero)
The Posse gains +2 MP to spend on the basic
Move action for the rest of the day.
Note that there are a few situations in which you would shuffle
the Exploration Tokens: 1) you start a new game session, 2) you start
a new Job, 3) whenever you transition between using the Overland
map & any Map Tiles, and 4) whenever you run out of unrevealed
Exploration Tokens.
9
Camp			(2 MP)
End all Moves for the day, each Hero Heals
2D6 Wounds/Sanity (any mix) and may take
keyword actions.SEARCHING
Revealing Exploration Tokens
When moving on the Overland map, make sure the pile
of Exploration Tokens is kept shuffled. When a Search action
is performed (1 MP), take note of the terrain that the Heroes
are currently on and take the top Exploration Token off the
pile to determine the results of that Search. The Heroes can
only Search each individual hex once per day, but may Search
multiple hexes while moving throughout a single day. The
Exploration token results are similar to what happens while
out on a Mission with some key differences.
Door/Gate Icons
Door and Gate Icons are used for some
Jobs and may be used to determine whether an
Attack is against Monster or Human Enemies,
but are otherwise ignored while Searching on
the Overland map.
Encounters
If an Exploration Token with the
‘Encounter’ result is revealed, roll one
Encounter from the matching Terrain
Encounter Chart. If the ‘Encounter x2’ result
is revealed, roll up two Encounters from the
matching Terrain Encounter Chart instead.
Attacks and Ambush Attacks
If an Exploration Token with the ‘Attack’
result is revealed, the Posse gets into a Fight!
If an Exploration Token with the ‘Ambush
Attack’ result is revealed, the Heroes have
been ambushed! All Enemies gain +2 Initiative
during the first turn of the Fight. Consult the
section on ‘Overland Combat’ for more information
on how to set up these Fights.
Growing Dread Encounter
If the Growing Dread Exploration
Token is revealed, roll on the ‘Growing
Dread’ section of the Terrain Encounter
Chart, regardless of what type of terrain
the Posse is actually currently on. In some campaign styles,
additional results may occur as a consequence of a ‘Growing
Dread Encounter’ result being revealed.
KEYWORD ACTIONS
Keyword actions are only available to the Posse if a Hero
with that keyword is traveling with the Posse, though MP for
the whole Posse is used to perform these actions. Some actions
require that the Heroes have made Camp for the day. To avoid
being overwhelmed, you may want to restrict these to ‘Once
per Adventure’ or each Player/Hero only gets one Camp action.
Frontier
Animal Trapping (1 MP; Camp):
[not available to Heroes with just the ‘Paleface’ keyword]
Once per day while Camped, each Hero gains 1 Grit,
though they still may not go above their Max Grit.
Holy
Prayer Ritual (1 MP; Camp):
While Camped, a Holy Hero and one or more other
Heroes must all make a Spirit 6+ test. If at least one Hero is
successful, all Heroes that participated gain Spirit Armor 6+
until the end of the next day.
Law
True Grit (1 MP; Camp):
While Camped, each Hero may make a Strength 5+ test.
If successful, that Hero gains +1 Max Grit until the end of
the next day. May only be attempted once per day.
Mutant
Mutate (1 MP; Camp):
[Not available to Heroes with just the ‘Science’ keyword]
While Camped, a Hero with a Mutation may attempt to
ingest
Dark Stone to force their body to mutate. Roll
once on the Mutation Chart and replace one Mutation you
already have with the new one rolled. If a mutation that
the Hero already has is the result, that mutation is removed
instead of killing the Hero as normal.
Occult
Cleansing Ritual (2 MP; Camp):
While Camped, each Hero may spend D3 Dark Stone
to remove 1 Corruption from themselves. This action
may only be taken once per day and each Hero may only
remove 1 Corruption per Ritual.
Outlaw
Clue Icons
Clue icons are used when the Heroes are on
a Job. Frequently these will require the Heroes
to find X Clue icons in order to progress or finish the Job.
Consult the Job description for more information.
10
Highway Robbery (1 MP; Camp):
While Camped on a Road hex, make an Agility 5+ or
Strength 4+ test to rob an unsuspecting traveler on the
road. If successful, you gain $25. Any other Hero in the
Posse may attempt to block your attempt by rolling at or
above your skill test using the same skill. If they match or
beat your number of successes, they block your attempt.
They gain 25 XP if successful and you get nothing.Performer
Traveling Act (2 MP; Camp):
The Posse takes time out from adventuring to play as a
performance group and entertain travelers. May only be
attempted once per day. While Camped on a Road hex,
each Hero in the group may attempt any Skill test at any
difficulty from 4+ up to 6+. For each success, that Hero
gains $5 X the difficulty of the Skill test (ex. Agility 6+ =
$30 per success [$5x6]). If any Hero rolls a 1 on their test,
that Hero bungles something and after their performance
the Heroes are booed away. They may not perform
this action for the next week as word of their terrible
performance spreads far and wide.
Science
Field Surgery (1 MP; Camp):
[Limit one attempt per Injury; not available to Heroes with
just the ‘Mutant’ keyword]
While Camped, a Science Hero may attempt to remove
one Injury gained within the last day from another Hero.
The Science Hero must make a Cunning 6+ test and
if successful, the Injury is healed. If any 1’s are rolled
however, the Surgery fails and the Hero who was being
operated on rolls once on the Injury Chart.
Scout
Scout Ahead (1 MP):
Once per day on the Overland map, the Posse may discard
and re-draw an Exploration Token just revealed. Does not
require the Posse to be in Camp.
Showman
Extreme Caution (1 MP):
You may downgrade an Ambush Attack to a regular Attack
while on the Overland map. Does not require the Posse to
be in Camp.
Strange
Find Trouble (2 MP; Camp):
You may only take this action while Camped. At the
beginning of the next day, you will be Ambushed by a
Threat one level higher than the Posse’s level (may not be
downgraded to regular Attack). The next Exploration token
that you reveal after that will have a Clue Icon attached to
it, in addition to any other results on the Exploration token
itself (Clue Icons are not cumulative). This may only be
done once per Job or Mission.
11
Traveler
Horsemeat March (0 MP):
Once per day and only if all Heroes own Horses, the
Posse gains
Move points for the day. At the end of the
day, roll a D8. On a 1, a Random Hero in the Posse loses
their Horse from exhaustion. The extra Move points can
only be used that day and may only be used for the basic
Move action. You may not perform a Horsemeat March
and Press On in the same day. Does not require the Posse
to be in Camp.
River Rafting (2 MP; Camp):
While Camped, the Posse may try to build a crude raft
to take them down the river during the next day’s travel.
All Heroes in the Posse must make a Strength 4+ test.
If successful, the next day the Posse may spend 1 MP to
travel to any hex along that river until the end of the day.
The raft breaks apart after that.
Train Hopping (2 MP):
[Heroes with the keyword ‘Law’ may not use this ability]
While on a rail line, each Hero in the Posse may give up
their horse to attempt to hitch a ride on a passing train for
free. Each Hero that does this makes an Agility 4+ test. If
successful, those Heroes that catch the train may travel to
any Town along the rail line.
Those that fail the attempt take D6 Wounds (ignores
Defense) in the attempt and must roll an additional D6.
On a 1, they also roll on the Injury Chart. Those Heroes
that don’t travel with the others may travel as normal and
the Posse moves separately until it joins back up. If any
Heroes remain, they may Move with any horses that are
left behind, otherwise if no Heroes are left, all Horses/
Transport items are lost. Does not require the Posse to be
in Camp.
Tribal
Spirit Guide (1 MP; Encounter):
[not available to Heroes with just the ‘Kemosabe’ keyword]
Once per day after rolling up a Wilderness or Terrain
Encounter, the Posse may re-roll for a different Encounter
while on the Overland map. Does not require the Posse to
be in Camp.
Youth
Horseplay (1 MP; Camp):
While Camped, at least one Youth Hero and any other
Heroes may make opposed Agility rolls. The Hero or
Heroes with the highest number of successes gains 10 XP,
while the Hero or Heroes with the lowest number of
successes gets D3 Wounds (ignoring Defense). The Posse
only has enough time for Horseplay once per day...
now get to bed.ENCOUNTERS
Wilderness Encounters
At the beginning of each day, a single player in the Posse
rolls a D8 to determine if they have a Wilderness Encounter.
On a result of 1 (or if anyone in the Posse is on foot, on a
1 or 2), the Heroes have a Wilderness Encounter and roll on
the Wilderness Encounter Chart to see what they find. Players
may want to assign a single person to this duty or can pass it
around for longer journeys. If using Wilderness Encounters, any
mention in the regular rules of the Travel Hazard Chart also
refers to the Wilderness Encounters Chart. The group may use
the Wilderness Encounters Chart, the Travel Hazards Chart, and
the Expanded Travel Hazards Chart interchangeably as they
wish throughout their travels, but should probably stick to
one of those Charts for consistency. The Wilderness Encounters
Chart specifically references movement on the Overland map.
Terrain Encounters
If an ‘Encounter’ or ‘Encounter x2’ result is revealed while the
Posse is Searching hexes on the Overland map, the Posse rolls for
each result on the relevant Terrain Encounter Chart, with each type
of terrain dictating a different table to roll on. The Posse only rolls
once on the Terrain Encounter Chart for the entire Posse. When
dealing with multiple Terrain types or features, the order that an
Encounter should be selected is: Towns/Ruins/Mines > Railroads >
Roads > Rivers > Mountains > All Other Terrain types.
Growing Dread Encounters
If a ‘Growing Dread Encounter’ result is revealed while the
Posse is Searching a hex, ignore the type of terrain the Posse is
currently on and instead roll on the ‘Growing Dread Encounter’
section of the Terrain Encounter Charts.
If Wilderness Encounters don’t happen often enough for
your group, feel free to adjust the dice type to a D6 or even
raise the trigger number. Keep in mind though that the more
Wilderness Encounters that you have, the more time you’ll spend
on the Overland map vs having Adventures in Mines or Towns.
TRANSPORTATION
Horses
Note that the terms ‘Horses’ and ‘Mounts’ are used
interchangeably and either refers to any Transport animals,
whether Horses or not. Specialty Horses that give additional
benefits still behave as normal and provide the same overland
speed as a Basic Horse (6 MP) unless otherwise noted, but any
extra XP is not gained until the completion of an Adventure.
Heroes do not gain XP for simply traveling around the map.
See the individual Horse’s stats with the rest of the HexCrawl
items for more information on how these behave in HexCrawl.
Carts
Some items allow the entire posse to travel together on
a single “mount”, such as the Stage Coach or the Covered
Wagon. In those cases, as long as there is room on the special
mount, everyone in the group is considered to be traveling on
horseback and Wilderness Encounters only occur on a roll of
1. That benefit is lost if the party decides to travel separately
on the Overland map. Also note that those special mounts are
lost if an effect would kill, destroy, or otherwise remove any
Heroes’ mount in the traveling group, regardless if it affects
the Hero who actually owns the mount or not. As long as the
Heroes still possess their Basic or Specialty Horses, they will
still be considered to be traveling on horseback, even if their
Cart item is lost.
For purposes of benefits and abilities, the Stage Coach
behaves as normal and travels at the same speed as Basic
Horses (6 Move points), though the bonus XP is not gained
until the end of an Adventure.
Trains & Steamboats
When traveling by train or steamboats, players do not
roll for a Wilderness Encounter and simply travel to their
destination. However, when players are riding horseback
over train tracks as Easy terrain, players would still roll for a
Wilderness Encounter each day. Note that only certain Towns
on the map will give access to riding trains on the rail line
(
on the Town tracker) or steamboats on a river (
on
the Town tracker).
Heroes may travel by train to and from any other Towns
on the rail line. When traveling by train, Heroes may only
travel to Towns on the rail line and cannot stop midway on
the tracks. Although the Ruins of Brimstone have train tracks
leading up to them, players cannot travel there by rail, though
the rails that are there still count as roads.
When traveling by steamboat, the Heroes can travel to any
hex on or adjacent to a river that is adjacent to the Town.
12FRONTIER TOWNS
Just as in the basic game, the Posse will want to stop off at Towns in between Jobs or Missions to rest, recharge, and visit
Town Locations to Buy/Sell Purchase Items or Services. For the most part, the Town Visit phase is left largely untouched,
though there are some notable differences.
With the release of the Frontier Town expansion, Heroes have some additional Town Types and Town Locations to visit which
requires some slight adjustments to the Town Setup step when moving around the HexCrawl Overland map. In addition, some
players may not own the Frontier Town expansion, so some of the steps here will vary depending on whether or not you own
the expansion. In previous versions of HexCrawl, the Hotel & Campsite Locations were sometimes not present in a Town, these
should now be included in all Towns at the outset, though in some cases they can still be Destroyed. Towns are Destroyed if there
are no Town Locations left (excluding the Hotel & Campsite Locations).
Visiting a Frontier Town
To begin the Town Visit phase, the Posse simply moves
onto a hex containing a Settlement or Town. No additional
Move points need be spent to visit a Town once the Posse has
entered that hex, entering a Town is considered a 0 MP action.
However, once a Posse ends their Town Stay, they must wait
one full day before they can re-enter that same Town (making
an additional roll for a Wilderness Encounter at the beginning of
the day as well).
Town Set Up
The Town Set Up phase is slightly different depending
on whether or not your group is including the Frontier Town
expansion in your game.
Town Set Up (with Frontier Town expansion)
1) Town Size 			
(D8)
2) Town Type 			
(2D6)
3) Town Trait [roll for 1]		
(D36)
4) Town Locations [tokens/roll] (D12)
Town Size
A Town’s Size rating determines how many Locations
can exist in that Town and also influences how much of an
investment the Heroes must make if they want to help build
Locations at that Town (see ‘Town Construction’ for more
information on building Locations). Note that a Town’s Size
may change over time through the destruction of Locations
or the building of new ones. Size 8 is the maximum size a
Town can be. A Town’s Size rating decreases if the number
of Locations in that Town is at or below the next Size rating
down. The Town’s Size rating increases if it has a number of
Locations above its current Size rating.
To determine a Town’s initial Size, players with the
Frontier Town expansion should roll a D8, while players
without the expansion should roll a D6:
D8/D6
1-4		
5-6		
7-8		
Town Set Up (without Frontier Town expansion)
1) Town Size			
(D6)
2) Town Keyword			
(D8)
3) Town Traits [roll for 2]
(D36)
4) Town Locations		
(D6)
13
Town Size
Size 4 Town (1–4 Locations)
Size 6 Town (5–6 Locations)
Size 8 Town (7–8 Locations)Town Type
D8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
[Required when Using the Frontier Town expansion]
Town Types were introduced with the Frontier Town
expansion and include a number of new rules to follow and
activities for Heroes to engage in. Each Town Type has
its own keywords, so rolling for a Town Keyword is not
necessary with the Frontier Town expansion.
To determine a Town’s Type, roll 2D6 on the Specialty
Town Types Chart to determine what type of Town they are
dealing with. Reroll a Town Type if the Type doesn’t make
sense with where the Town exists on the map:
• Towns not near a river should not be River Towns
• Towns not on the Rail line cannot be Rail Towns
• Towns not near mountains may not make sense as
Mining Towns
• As an option, you may want to avoid using the
Town Ruins type for the initial Town Setup, though
Towns may become this Town Type at a later time
(see ‘Town Destruction’ section for more info).
2D6
2
3
4
5
6, 7, 8
9
10
11
12
Town Type
Town Ruins
Haunted Town
Plague Town
Rail Town
Standard Frontier Town
Mining Town
River Town
Mutant Town
Outlaw Town
Town Keyword
Town Keyword 		
(Location)
Traveler
(General Store)
Showman/Performer
(Saloon)
Holy
(Church)
Science/Mutant
(Doc’s Office)
Law
(Frontier Outpost)
Outlaw
(Saloon)
Tribal/Kemosabe
---
Frontier/Paleface
(Frontier Outpost)
Town Traits
Town Traits are additional unique, sometimes bizarre
features about the Town that you might not find anywhere
else. These might be general traits about the people
themselves or something peculiar about the local area that
affect the Posse’s Town Visits and/or what Locations are
possible in the Town.
Roll D36 (D6+D6) to determine the Town’s Trait using
the Town Traits Chart (see next section). If you are using the
Frontier Town expansion, only roll for one Town Trait. If you
aren’t using the expansion, roll for two Town Traits instead.
Town Locations
After all the Traits/Types/Keywords and such are out
of the way, you can now start populating the Town with
Locations. This can be done by either rolling on one of
the following tables or choosing Town Location Tokens at
random. Remember that certain Towns automatically start
with some Locations (depending on Keyword or Type) while
other Locations may be restricted from ever existing in a
Town, either at the start or in the future.
[Required when NOT Using the Frontier Town expansion]
A Town’s Keyword gives a sense of the most influential
group within this Town and tells the Posse what that Town’s
priorities are.
D12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
To determine a Town’s keyword, roll D8 on the
following table. A Town’s keyword also determines a default
Location in that Town. Add this Location to the Town
before adding in any other Locations. In previous versions
of HexCrawl, a Town’s keyword had matching and opposed
keyword effects, these can be dropped in order to simplify the
Town Visit phase.
14
Location (with Frontier Town expansion)
General Store
Frontier Outpost
Church
Doc’s Office
Saloon
Blacksmith
Sheriff’s Office
Gambling Hall
Street Market
Smuggler’s Den
Mutant Quarter
Indian Trading PostD6
1
2
3
4
5
6
Town Build Chart (roll 2D6)
Location (without Frontier Town expansion)
Initial Investment
General Store
Size 4 Size 6 Size 8		
Frontier Outpost
(1-4)
(5-6)
(7-8)
(# Locations)
Church
$1000
$1500
$2000
=
Doc’s Office
Saloon
$2000
$3000
$4000
=
Blacksmith
Town Construction
For a cost, the Heroes may opt to build new Locations
in Town. Newly built Locations must not conflict with a
Town’s Keyword, Type, or Trait(s) (i.e. no Sheriff’s Office in
an Outlaw Town, etc). Each Town has a Size rating (4, 6, or
8) and each has different modifiers and prices that affect the
permanency of new Locations (see Town Build Chart).
The maximum amount of Locations a Town can ever
have is 8. If building a new Town Location would increase
the size of the Town to a Size rating above it’s current one,
then the higher Size rating modifiers and prices are used.
Duplicate Town Locations may not be built. If Locations are
ever Destroyed in a Town, the Size rating of that Town will
decrease to match (prices/modifiers will adjust as well).
1.
The Posse decides it wants to build a new Location
in Town. All Heroes that are attempting to get the
Location built must spend a full day trying to setup
the deal and must make a Group Cunning 6+ or
Group Luck 6+ test to see if they are able to arrange
the deal. As long as one Hero is successful (each
successful Hero gains 10XP), the Heroes may proceed
to build the new Location. Only one attempt may be
made per Town Visit.
2.The Posse pays out its Initial Investment into the
Location, with the amount invested affecting the
chances of that Location staying open permanently.
However, there’s always a chance that something
happens and the Heroes lose out on their money.
3.For that Town Visit and for the next 7 days
afterwards, the Posse may visit the new Location in
that Town. All Heroes in the Posse get a $25 or 10%
discount (whichever is greater; min price $25) from
that specific Town Location as long as it exists.
4.After 7 days, the Posse makes a 2D6 roll on the
Town Build Chart to determine if the Location
stays open permanently. If you roll the Target
# for that Town’s Size and the amount of your
Initial Investment, the new Location is permanent,
otherwise it closes up shop and is Destroyed.
15
Target #
12+
10+
$3000$4500$6000=8+
$4000$6000$8000=6+
$5000$7500$10000=4+
$6000$9000$12000=3+
Town Destruction
Whenever all the Locations in a Town are Destroyed,
the Town itself is also Destroyed. As Locations are Destroyed,
a Town’s Size rating should change along with the number
of Locations in that Town. So if a Size 6 Town with only 5
Locations loses one more Location, that Town then becomes
a Size 4 Town.
When Towns are Destroyed in HexCrawl it is meant
to usually be a permanent affair and for the base game it is,
either a Town is Destroyed or it is not. For the Frontier Town
expansion however, you have two options for how you want
to handle Destroyed Towns:
•A Town is Destroyed permanently
•A Town that is “Destroyed” instead becomes the
Town Ruins type. Towns are not truly Destroyed
until all Town Locations are Destroyed. This would
be a bit more of a forgiving play style (especially
with the Mine Blast or Hell on Earth Campaigns) and
allows you to incorporate the Town Ruins type into
a game over time, rather than at the onset.Town Traits Chart
16
D36 (D6x10+D6) Town Traits Chart
11
12
13
Dry
This Town has declared alcohol to
be a vile sin and forbids the purchase
of or the imbibing of any alcoholic
demon drink. Heroes may not purchase
any alcoholic Side Bag Tokens here
but may attempt to sell them at the
Camp Site for twice the price. When
attempting to sell, roll a D6. On a 1 or
2, the sale is discovered and the Heroes
must end their Town Stay and cannot
enter Town for a week.
21
22Bad Water
Folks here tell you not to touch the
water, whether to bathe in or drink,
it’s got things crawlin’ around that ain’t
healthy. Oddly enough, the townsfolk
don’t seem much affected by it. At the
beginning of each day, every Hero
makes a Strength 4+ test. If failed they
are at -1 Health until the end of the
next Mission.
23Inbred
Everyone in this Town is related to
everyone else here and it’s makin’ the
people not right in the head. You may
only Purchase Items in this Town. All
other Services, Rituals, or other actions
are unavailable on account of being too
complicated for folks here to figure out.
No Stones Allowed!
[Reroll if the Town is the Mining Town type]
The people here are fed up with Dark
Stone and don’t allow any Dark Stone
into the city. You may not buy or sell
any Dark Stone, Gear with the Dark
Stone symbol, or any Dark Stone
Upgrades while in this Town.
Dark Stone Infused
Everything here is coated with a fine
Dark Stone dust. Each Hero takes
1 Corruption Hit for each day that
they stay here during a Town Visit.
15Shortages
Degenerate
[Reroll if the Town has the keyword ‘Law’
or the trait ‘Law-Abiding’]
The womenfolk here aren’t safe to walk
the streets alone. Any Female Hero that
visits a Town Location without a Male
Hero is at risk of being assaulted. If
unaccompanied, make a Strength 4+
test. If failed, that Female Hero takes
Hits (1 Damage each) and rolls on
the Injury Chart if she suffers more than
3 Wounds.
Dark Secret
This Town has a secret so horrible the
Town itself would be torn apart were
it to ever come to light. Every time
the Posse enters for a Town Stay, a
Random Hero makes a Cunning 6+
test. If three successes are made on a
single roll, this vile secret is discovered
and this Town is Destroyed.
14
Obligation
A Random Hero has some sort of
financial obligation in this Town
(family, lover, property, etc) and must
pay D3x$50 whenever visiting this
Town or else gain 1 Corruption point
with no Willpower save.
24
[Reroll if the Town is the Mining Town or
Rail Town type]
Xenophobic
[Reroll if the Town has the keyword ‘Mutant’
or is the Mutant Town type]
Heroes with any Mutations roll twice
for Location Events and always take
the lesser of the two results. This
Town should never include the Mutant
Quarter Location.
This Town is having trouble getting
ahold of the basic necessities and there
are shortages on most items here. Side
Bag Tokens may not be bought here,
but may be sold for twice the listed
price. Also, whenever a Hero wants to
buy a Purchase Item, roll a D6. On a 1,
2, or 3, that Item is not in stock.
1625
Unstable Gate
35
[Reroll if the Town has the trait ‘Peaceful’]
Sometimes Gates open up in Town.
Whenever the Posse enters this Town, All
Heroes make a Luck 4+ roll. If failed,
Attack! - Draw a Threat card at the
Posse’s Threat level. If this fight is failed
or escaped, Destroy one Town Location.
26
31
Foreigners
A colony of some foreign folk live here
and it’s hard to figure out where anything
is because none of them speaks proper
‘Merican. Whenever a Hero would visit a
Town Location, go to a Random Town
Location instead.
41
[Reroll this trait if the Town already has the
‘Religious Cult’ trait or keyword ‘Holy’ or is
the Plague Town type]
32Cannibals!
The people of this Town have taken to
questionable practices. Whenever the
Posse enters this Town, Attack! - Roll a
Human Threat at the Hero Posse’s level.
If all Heroes are KO’d during this fight,
all Heroes roll on the Injury Chart 3 times.
The Heroes may not stay at this Town
(not even at the Camp Site).
33Religious Cult
[Reroll this trait if the Town already has the
‘Heathens’ trait]
The townsfolk here are overzealous and
won’t abide unbelievers. Heroes that do
not have the keyword ‘Holy’ roll twice for
Location Events and always take the lesser
of the two results. There must always be
a Church in this Town. Replace another
Location with the Church if it is ever
Destroyed for any reason.
Boring
Folks here are boring as hell. Remove
any other Town Traits/Types/Keywords
from this Town and do not roll for any
other Traits.
17
Corrupt
[Reroll this trait if the Town has the
keyword ‘Law’]
Corruption is widespread in this Town.
Each Hero must pay a $25 bribe for
each day they stay in Town or else they
must end their Town Visit immediately.
Heathens
Heroes with the keyword ‘Holy’ or
‘Occult’ roll twice for Location Events
and always take the lesser of the two
results. Replace the Church with another
Location if it is setup in this Town.
34
36
Bartering
The people here don’t care much
for Gold and it may not be used to
Purchase Items here. All Items that are
traded directly for Items or Services are
worth their listed sell value, however,
no change is given.
Thieving
[Reroll if the Town has the ‘Law-Abiding’
Trait or the keyword ‘Law’]
Whenever the Posse enters this Town,
they are immediately targeted by a gang
of pickpockets & thieves. Each Hero
makes an Agility 4+ roll. If failed, that
Hero has lost D3X$50 worth of Gold,
Gear or Side Bag Tokens (your choice).
42Slavers
The people in this Town have turned
to slavery to deal with their hardships.
Whenever you visit Town Locations,
take D6 Corruption Hits. A Hero
may attempt to free slaves from a Town
Location by making a Strength 6+ test.
Destroy that Location, gain 50XP, and
end the Posse’s Town Stay. You may
not visit again for a week.
43Amazonian
Women have banded together here and
don’t care much for men. Male Heroes
roll twice for Location Events and
always take the lesser of the two results.
44
Peaceful
[Reroll if the Town has the keyword ‘Outlaw’
or has the ‘Unstable Gate’ trait or is the
Outlaw Town type]
No weapons of any sorts are permitted
in this Town. While in Town the
Heroes do not have access to their
weapons and may only use their fists in
Combat. The Heroes may not purchase
or sell any Weapons, Ammunition, or
Weapon Upgrades while in Town.45Addicted
The people of this Town are in the
throes of a terrible addiction and will
go to any lengths to get it. Each Hero
makes an Agility 4+ roll for each day
they stay in Town. If failed, that Hero
loses an Alcohol or Herb Side Bag
Token (their choice).
46Nightmares
Every night you stay in this Town
your sleep is troubled with horrifying
nightmares. Each Hero takes 3 Horror
Hits every day they stay in Town.
Sanity Damage gained from this cannot
be Healed until after you confront your
fears and finish another Mission.
51Artifact Decay
Something about this Town don’t react
well with them artifacts people been
pulling up from the Mines. Each Hero
that carries any Artifacts rolls a D8
whenever they enter this Town. On a 1,
2, or 3, add a Corruption token to an
Artifact (your choice). With 3 Corruption
tokens, that Artifact is Destroyed.
52Bad Luck
There’s something not quite right about
this place and it seems to be contagious.
At the beginning of each day in Town,
All Heroes make a Luck 5+ roll. If
failed, move the Darkness marker two
spaces on the Town Event Track instead
of the normal one per day.
53
54Jovial
Despite the circumstances, the people
here seem downright happy and
unphased, which is just somehow
wrong. When rolling on the Town
Event Chart, roll twice and take the
higher of the two rolls.
55Constructive
Whenever the Heroes enter this Town,
if any Town Locations have been
Destroyed, the Posse rolls a D8. If an
8 is rolled, add a new Town Location.
This roll is not made again until
another Mission is completed.
56Cattle Yard
Heroes here can make some extra cash
on the side by helping out herding or
slaughtering cattle. Instead of visiting a
Town Location, a Hero may make an
Agility or Strength Skill test for the day
to earn some money. For each roll of
2-5, gain $25. For every roll of 6, that
Hero gains $100. If a 1 is rolled, that
Hero earns nothing and has suffered an
accident, roll on the Injury Chart instead.
61
Law-Abiding
[Reroll this trait if the Town type is an
Outlaw Town or if the Town already has
either the ‘Degenerate’ or ‘Thieving’ Trait or
the keyword ‘Outlaw’]
Folks here are proper and don’t much
tolerate disreputable persons. Heroes
with the keyword ‘Outlaw’ roll twice
for Location Events and always take
the lesser of the two results. This Town
should never include the Smuggler’s
Den Location.
Black Market
The Heroes may visit any Town
Location they want to, whether or
not it “officially” exists in this Town.
Prices are $50 more expensive for
any Purchase Items or Services at
Black Market Locations (regular Town
Locations have normal prices). If a Town
Location is ever Destroyed, a Black
Market Location will spring up to
replace it. If all Town Locations are
Destroyed in this Town, the Town itself
is Destroyed.
62
18
Fancy House
Every night you stay in this Town, each
Hero rolls a D8. On a 1 or 2, a Male
Hero loses $50 and gains the keyword
‘Rash’. While you have ‘Rash’, your
Hero is -25% Health (rounded up).
This may be removed at the Doc’s
Office with a Surgery attempt. On a
roll of 8, that Hero instead loses $100
and may remove one Madness. Female
Heroes who roll a 7 or 8 may gain
$100 if they choose to.63Unstable Economy
This Town is in a constant state of flux
and you can never tell who’s set up shop
and it’s always something different every
time you come here. Choose different
Town Locations each time you come
here for a Town Stay (Keyword Locations
or Town Type Locations are the only
constants, must still follow any restrictions).
64Dimensional Paradox
This Town is caught in a weird vortex
at the junction of two realities. Pick a
second, different Keyword or Town Type,
depending on if you own the Frontier
Town expansion. Whenever you enter
Town, roll a D6. On an even roll, it is
the 1st Town Keyword/Type, on an odd
roll it is the 2nd Town Keyword/Type.
Locations stay the same though and may
conflict with the rules… it’s a paradox.
65Well-Defended
This Town has Armor 5+. Whenever
a Town Location or the Town itself
would be Destroyed, roll a D6. On a 5
or better, that Location or the Town is
not Destroyed.
66Unique Location
There’s an expert or artisan in Town
that is renowned throughout the
region and beyond. Choose one of the
Town’s Locations at Random. You may
purchase Advanced Gear & Services
from this Location in this Town.
19EXPANDED COMBAT OPTIONS
Some additional Attack actions and tokens may be used while the Heroes are engaged in Fights out in the world or in the
Mines. The Stranglehold and Capture actions are only available against Human Enemies and cannot be used against Enemies
with the keywords Beast, Void, Demon, or Undead, while the other actions are restricted to Medium or smaller Enemies.
New Attacks
Push
In place of a Melee Attack, you may try to Push an Enemy
backwards. To Push, make a normal Combat Melee Attack roll
and if successful, do no damage and instead Push the Enemy
back 1 space. If your Push is a Critical Hit, the Enemy also
loses their next Activation. The Enemy is not moved if there
is no open space for them to move into, though they may still
lose their next Activation if it is a Critical Hit. Only possible on
Medium or smaller Enemies. Uses up 1 Combat action.
Pull
In place of a Melee Attack, you may attempt to Pull an
Enemy forward and move them to a different space. To Pull,
make a normal Combat Melee Attack roll and if successful, do
no damage and instead Pull the Enemy into any other space
that is open and adjacent to your Hero. Only possible on
Medium or smaller Enemies. Uses up 1 Combat action.
Stranglehold
As your only action for your Activation, you may grapple
with a Human Enemy and try to get them in a stranglehold.
While adjacent to an Enemy, roll for an Agility 4+ or Strength 4+
test. If successful, that Enemy takes either 1 or D3 damage (your
choice) and they are unable to Move or Activate during their turn.
To maintain the Stranglehold you need to successfully perform
the Stranglehold action each turn and cannot Move or perform
any other actions, otherwise the Stranglehold is broken. Any
Stranglehold attempt consumes your entire Activation and you can
perform no other actions, no matter how high your Combat.
Capture
Human Enemies can sometimes be Captured during
combat by a Hero to fulfill a Job or Mission objective. To
capture a Human Enemy alive, you’ll need to get them down to
1 Health and try to immobilize them. Any Hero can try this by
making either an Agility 6+ or Strength 6+ test while adjacent to
the Human Enemy. If the Enemy is immobilized in this manner,
they are out of the Fight for good and the Fight is over when all
other Enemies are defeated. That Enemy is captured and may be
brought in to complete a Job or Mission objective. Capturing an
Enemy without a specific Job or Mission in place is possible. The
Capturing Hero gains +5 XP in addition to the regular XP for
defeating an Enemy. Any Capture attempt consumes your entire
Activation and you can perform no other actions, no matter how
high your Combat.
Lasso
Requires Rope Gear. Make a Ranged Attack (Shots 1,
Range 3) against a Medium or smaller Enemy. If successful,
does no Damage, but Enemy loses their next Activation. To
maintain a Lasso on an Enemy, a Hero must have one free
hand open and uses up 1 Combat to maintain the Lasso. At the
start of that Enemy’s following Activation, they must make an
Escape 4+ test or else they lose their Activation again. If they
escape, you must make another Lasso attack if you wish to
immobilize them. If a mounted Hero moves while an Enemy is
Lasso’d, that Enemy takes D3 Hits at the end of the Move and
is moved space-for-space with the Hero.
Terrain Cards
With this release of HexCrawl comes a new card type,
Terrain cards, to use as an option while Adventuring down
in the Mines. These provide variant rules for playing with
additional bits of terrain/objects that can change up your
tactics in a fight. The suggestion is that you maintain a small
facedown deck of these cards and only draw and place terrain
tokens on Map Tiles when you draw a Clue icon. Some
Tokens come standard with the Core game, while others are
found with the HexCrawl Tokens.
Placing Terrain Tokens
Each Terrain card will specify how many Terrain Tokens
will get placed on a Map Tile. Determining placement is
up to the Posse, though there are suggested spreads on the
cards themselves. To use the spreads, locate the approximate
center of the Map Tile and place the Tokens accordingly,
or for some randomization you can roll via the Random
Space Diagram and another die and place Tokens that way.
Otherwise, you could just take turns placing Tokens by player
choice or just leave it up to the GM player if playing with that
option. You could also probably just drop them onto the Map
Tile and play them where they fall.
20OVERLAND COMBAT
In certain situations, the Posse can now enter into battle
while on the Overland map. In those cases you’ll need to
make use of a terrain battlemap or even the town battlemap
provided with the Frontier Town expansion if you have it.
Some generic battlemap options are provided if you don’t
have any on hand (courtesy of Madcowchef from DeviantArt).
Battle largely occurs as normal except that each turn the Hold
Back the Darkness roll is skipped, unless specifically called for
from an effect, Mission or Job.
Battlemap Terrain Features
The included generic battlemap tiles use markings based
off of Fantasy Flight Games’ Star Wars Imperial Assault
system, along with some other map features unique to
Madcowchef’s map tiles. Note that extra Move costs do not
stack with each other.
Difficult
Indicated by a solid blue border surrounding
a space. A Model must spend one additional
Move point to enter or Move through
a space of Difficult terrain. Moving out
of Difficult terrain does not cost extra.
Enemies with Flight are not affected by
Difficult terrain.
Impassable
Indicated by a dotted red border between
spaces on the map. Models cannot Move
through dotted red lines. Two spaces
separated by a single dotted line of
Impassible terrain are adjacent, while
spaces separated by more than one dotted
line are not adjacent. Line of Sight can be
traced through Impassible terrain. Enemies
with Flight may move through Impassable
spaces unaffected, but may not end their
Movement on an Impassable space.
Blocked
Indicated by a solid red border surrounding
a space. Models cannot Move into or trace
Line of Sight through spaces of Blocked
terrain. Enemies with Flight may move
through Blocked spaces unaffected and
have Line of Sight, but may not end their
Movement on a Blocked space.
21
Walls
Indicated by a black line that appears
between spaces. Two spaces separated by a
Wall are not adjacent. Figures cannot Move
through or trace Line of Sight through
Walls. Enemies with Flight may move
through Walls unaffected and have Line
of Sight.
Water
Water is Difficult terrain. Moving through
Water costs 1 extra Move and if a ‘1’ is ever
rolled for Grit while starting your Activation
on a Water space, you lose your Activation
for the Turn. Enemies with Flight are
unaffected by Water.
Bushes
Moving through Bushes costs 1 extra Move
point. Adjacent Models roll Cover 6+ if
a Bush is between them and a Ranged
Attacker. Enemies with Flight may move
through unaffected and cannot use Bushes
for Cover. Smaller Bushes have no effects
(use player discretion).
Waterfall/Rapids
Moving into or through a Waterfall/Rapids
space costs 1 extra Move. Whenever a
Model starts their Turn on or enters into a
Waterfall/Rapids space, immediately make
an Agility 6+ check or else get Pushed
D3 spaces downstream and take D6 Hits
(1 Damage each). You also lose your
Activation for the Turn. Enemies with
Flight are unaffected by Waterfalls/Rapids.
Cliffs
Moving into or through a Cliff space costs
1 extra Move. Upon entering a Cliff space,
immediately make an Agility 4+ test or else
fall down and take D6 Hits (1 Damage
each). You also lose your Activation for the
Turn. Smaller Cliffs have no effect. Enemies
with Flight are unaffected by Cliffs.
Log Bridge
While moving onto or through any spaces
with the Log Bridge, make an Agility 4+
roll. If Failed, stop all Movement and you
lose your Activation for the Turn. Enemies
with Flight are unaffected by Log Bridges.Battlemap Set Up
When constructing a terrain battlemap
from the provided 7x7 gridded Map Tiles,
place two together to form a 7x14 grid for
Low and Medium Threats. For High and
Epic Threats, place 4 together in a 14x14
grid. If your battles are getting too big, you
may even want to add more Map Tiles to
allow movement past the normal boundaries.
The Heroes are outside, there are no walls.
High/Epic Threats
Overland Attacks & Ambush Attacks
When placing Heroes for a normal Fight that are
triggered on the Overland map, place them roughly at the
center on one edge of the battlemap and the Enemies on the
opposite side of the battlemap, following the same placement
rules as you normally would.
When setting up for an Ambush Attack triggered on the
Overland map, place the Heroes in the center of the battlemap
at least two spaces away from every other Hero. Then place
the Enemies around the Heroes similar to how you would an
Ambush Attack in the Mines (same bonus to Initiative).
Escaping from Overland Combat
In some situations Heroes or Enemies may need to make
a tactical retreat or risk getting knocked out and/or killed. To
Escape from an Overland battle, a figure needs to make it to a
space along the edge of the battlemap. Make an Escape 3+ test
(if no Enemy is adjacent, otherwise go based off the Enemy’s
Escape rating). If successful, that figure is removed from the
rest of that battle and has gotten away.
Adding Map Tiles
Sometimes during combat, models may reach the edge of
a terrain Map Tile and don’t necessarily want to Escape from
combat. It doesn’t make sense that they suddenly hit a wall in
the middle of a grass field. If you want you can just add on
terrain Map Tiles to the edge of the battlemap to expand the
fight in a different direction. In this way, the battlemap itself
may grow organically with the fight. This may be especially
useful for Fights involving Mounted combat where you have
Heroes on horseback rushing around the map at high speeds.
Area Effects
MOUNTED COMBAT
Low/Medium Threats
Note that Enemy abilities like Terror which normally
only affect Heroes on the same or adjacent Map Tiles, instead
affect ALL Heroes involved in Combat, regardless of range.
With Combat occurring on the Overland map, Heroes can
engage in Combat while on horseback since they aren’t restricted
to the cramped Mines anymore. If you decide to allow mounted
combat in your games, you’ll need to track your Horse’s stats, as
well as pay attention to facing. Heroes only go into Combat with
their Horse if they opt to, otherwise it’s assumed that those Heroes
have tied their Horse somewhere before engaging in a Fight.
A mounted Hero takes up two spaces and is considered
adjacent to all spaces surrounding them and the Horse (though
their facing determines movement and some combat options). Stats
are provided for all the Horse “items” along with other HexCrawl
items. Note that in the following sections, the terms ‘Mounts’ and
‘Horses’ will be used interchangeably. Whether a Transport item is
an actual Horse or some other alien animal, the rules will still be
the same. Note that Carts cannot be brought into Combat.
Riding A Horse
A mounted Hero may get on and off their Horse for
1 Move. If a Horse is Spooked or moved within the last turn
when they try to get on, it will cost 2 Move and the Hero will
need to make an Agility 5+ test to see if they are successful. If
unsuccessful, the Hero will need to try again.
A mounted Hero moves at a basic pace of 6+D6 Move per
turn (if rolling to move) or with a set Move 10 if playing Fixed
Hero Movement. Horses may also move diagonally forward,
but cannot sidestep. Moving forward costs 1 Move as normal,
but turning with a Horse costs 3 Move to make 90º turns in
either direction and the Horse must maintain facing as it turns.
A mounted Hero may either turn forward or back into a turn.
Horses may move through spaces occupied by Small or
Medium figures, but will Trample them, those figures take
D6 Hits (whether friendly or not, 1 Damage each Hit). When
a Hero is riding a Mount, the Mount’s Move is used and the
Hero no longer uses their Movement. If a Hero gets onto a
Horse and then wants to move after that, roll what the Horse’s
movement would have been and then subtract whatever amount
the Hero has moved from the Horse’s Move.
So for example, if a Hero moves 3 spaces, then jumps onto a
stationary Horse for another 1 Move, that Mounted Hero would then
have -4 Movement left while on top of the Horse.
While on horseback, a Hero cannot shoot directly
backwards unless using a pistol and your Range To Hit rolls
are -1. A Hero can only make Melee attacks against adjacent
figures on either side of the Horse’s model, but cannot make
Melee attacks to the front or rear spaces of the Horse. Melee
Hits do +1 Damage while on horseback.
22Targeting
Examples of forward movement on a Mount.
While a Hero is mounted, Enemies will target differently
depending on their size. Large Enemies or bigger will still
target mounted Heroes as normal, the only time they might
target Horses would be if any Horses were running around
on their own without riders. Medium Enemies will target
Horses alongside Heroes, so Horses should be added into the
mix when randomly choosing who an Enemy would target.
Small Enemies will not target Heroes that are on horseback,
they would instead target the Horses that they ride, alongside
any unmounted Heroes. Note that area effects will still affect
Horses if they are within the target zone (such as a Dynamite
blast or a Terror ability that affects an entire Map Tile).
Example of turning forward to the right.
Cover While Mounted
When mounted, a Hero may opt to use their Horse as
Cover. Horses used as Cover in this way act as Armor 4+ and
anything that Hits the “Armor” does damage to the Horse
(ignores the Horses Defense) instead. Horses are not KO’d as
Heroes are. If they reach 0 Health, they are Dead. If a Horse
is killed with a rider still on it, the rider falls off and takes D6
Hits. Horses may not be healed during Fights using Side Bag
Tokens, but instead recover Health from Catch Your Breath
rolls or if the Posse Camps.
Example of backing into a turn to the right.
Spooked Mounts
Any Critical Hits or Sanity damage done to a Mount will
Spook it and cause the Hero to lose control. When a Horse
is out of control, it will run at full speed in the direction it is
facing each turn. When it reaches the edge of the Map tile, it
is removed from the Fight, though it is not Dead. If a Hero
is riding a Horse when it loses control, the Hero can make
either a Strength 5+ or Spirit 5+ test to see if they can bring
it back under control. If failed, then the rider is immediately
thrown off the Mount (suffering D6 Hits, 1 Damage each)
and the Mount runs off at a full Move without the Hero.
Melee attacks only possible against adjacent models on either side.
23HUMAN ENEMIES / VILLAINS
‘Heroes’ vs ‘Villains’
In the context of HexCrawl, ‘Heroes’ refers to the player
characters and their associated classes, while ‘Villains’ will
refer to non-player Human Enemies that share these same
classes. The stats are similar between Heroes & Villains,
special abilities have been reworked for the Villains to make
them follow standard Enemy attack logic. Note that the terms
‘Human Enemies’ & ‘Villains’ are used interchangeably, but
both essentially refer to the same thing, though you may want
to include Bandits from the Frontier Town expansion in that
group as well.
Shootout & Assault
Many of the Villains included with HexCrawl have
abilities that mimic the Enemy abilities that were introduced
in later expansions. ‘Ranged Attacker’ is similar to ‘Shootout’,
while ‘Ranged Brawler’ is similar to ‘Assault’. If you’re more
familiar with the official versions of these rules (Shootout &
Assault), feel free to use those in place of what is listed on the
Enemy card. The other terms are meant for players who don’t
have any expansions on hand that use those abilities or if you
want a quick & dirty approximation of what those abilities do
and how they affect the Enemy’s AI. Feel free to use those
rules in place of the following rules with regards to Enemy
placement and Ambushes.
Human Enemy Attacks
Set Up rules for regular Attacks that are initiated by
pulling an Attack result from an Exploration Token or
however else are relatively unchanged and Enemies are placed
as normal in the standard grid pattern. As a special rule
however, Human Enemies with Range Attacks should be
placed to the back of the group, while Melee-only Enemies
should be placed towards the front. This is regardless of
whatever their Initiative order actually is, to prevent clusters of
Enemies from blocking Melee-only fighters from advancing to
the front lines.
Human Enemy Ambush Attacks
When the Heroes are Ambushed, in most cases Human
Enemies are not placed adjacent to the Heroes as normal.
Instead, Enemies with Ranged attacks are placed in a random
direction from the targeted Hero a number of spaces equal
to the maximum Range of that Enemy’s Range attack and
in Line of Sight (using a D8 and the Random Direction
diagram). If unable to go that number of spaces in the
direction rolled, the Enemy is placed as far as they are able
to while still meeting all the requirements (similar to how
Dynamite stops bouncing when it hits a wall). If the direction
rolled on the diagram is an unavailable space (ie a wall), then
move counterclockwise from that point until a viable space is
found and then count out range as normal. Human enemies
with no Range attacks are simply placed adjacent to their
targeted Hero as normal. All Human Enemies still gain +2
Initiative when Ambushing.
OPTIONAL HUMAN ENEMY RULES
Dropped Weapons
For those Villains that have Range Attacks, as an option
you may decide to allow your Heroes to pick up one of those
same weapons at the end of a Fight in lieu of drawing a
Loot Card. Although Villains typically have slightly modified
stats with these weapons, Heroes that pick up these weapons
should use the same stats as shown on their Gear card or
Purchase Item description section of the Town pages.
Enemies Reveal Map Tiles
Most Villains with Range attacks will back up to their
maximum range in order to shoot their weapon. In cases
where these Enemies back into an exposed puzzle section
that would lead to another room or passage or the edge of
an terrain map tile, you should normally have them stop at
the edge of the Map Tile and treat it as a wall. However, for
added unpredictability you may want to have these Enemies
reveal new Map Tiles and lay down Exploration Tokens,
however leave those Exploration Tokens unrevealed until a
Hero actually enters the room.
24Mixed Enemies
If you want to play with a mixture of Human and
Monster Enemies, you may want to let the Exploration
Tokens determine what types of Enemies you come across,
though this will change up the difficulty of Missions and may
not work as well with the theme of the Mission. Whenever an
Attack result is drawn with a Gate icon, then draw a Threat
card as normal, however, if an Attack or Ambush result is
drawn with any Door icons, roll on one of the following
Human Threat Tables. This will decrease the occurrence of
supernatural monsters on a Mission, but makes those Fights
that much more out of the ordinary when they do occur, so it
makes the Mission a bit more grounded in reality and doesn’t
have fantastical otherworldly creatures at every turn.
Human Threat Tables
D8Low Threat (1-2 Heroes)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
82 Villains
Lackeys
1 Villain +
1 Villain +
Thugs
1 Villain +
Henchmen
6 Lackeys
Lackeys +
Thugs
Thugs
Henchmen
D8Medium Threat (3-4 Heroes)
1-2
3
4
5
6
7-8D3 Villains
1 Villain + 1 Low Threat roll
12 Lackeys
Lackeys +
Thugs
Lackeys +
Henchmen
2 Low Threats
D8High Threat (5-6 Heroes)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
81 Villain + 1 Med Threat roll
1 Villain + 2 Low Threat rolls
D3 Villains + 1 Low Threat roll
D3 Villains + 6 Thugs
3 Villains
D8Epic Threat
1-2
3-4
5-6
7-81 Brutal Villain + 1 Threat roll (at level)
1 Brutal Villain + 2 Low Threat rolls
D3 Villains + 2 Threat rolls (at level)
2 Elite Threat rolls (at level)
D8Random Villain Table*
1Roll D8:
1-4 Bandido / 5-8 Outlaw
Gunslinger
Rancher
Saloon Girl
Indian Scout
Preacher
Corrupt Marshal
Corrupt Lawman
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Lackeys +
Thugs +
12 Lackeys + 6 Thugs
2 Med Threat rolls
* Alternatively, you can just randomly draw
a Hero Token to decide Villain’s class.
25
HenchmenMISSIONS
Missions may be gained a few different ways, depending on your campaign style. In the Mine Blast campaign, you simply
gain Missions in Towns, while in the Short Story campaign there are pre-determined Story Missions and some Missions gained
through Jobs. The Sandbox campaign style lets you gain Missions from Towns or you may gain Missions while picking up
Jobs. Regardless of how Missions are gained, if you ever need to choose a random Mission, you can either just draw a random
World card and select a Mission from that set, or if you have some of the other expansions you can roll on the Random
Mission Chart below. If you don’t have an expansion that you rolled for, reroll until you find one you do have, but realize that
you must BUY MORE STUFF.
Completing Missions
D8(+D6)
1
2–3
4
5
6-8
		
Random Mission Chart
XXL Enemy Mission
Enemy Pack Mission
Frontier Town Mission
HexCrawl Mission
Adventure Book Mission
(draw a World Card)
Choosing Missions
If selecting Missions in Town, each Town may only
provide one Mission at a time, though Heroes may visit other
Towns to pick up multiple Missions at a time. Players will
want to track which Missions were given in which Towns for
collecting rewards. This can be marked up on the HexCrawl
Town Tracker in the ‘Job/Mission:’ section for each Town.
When Heroes are in Town picking a Mission, players
also need to decide which Mine the Mission will be occurring
in, unless picking a Frontier Town Mission, in which case
that Mission happens in a Random Town instead. Otherwise,
players should roll on the D20 Mine Chart to determine a
Random Mine for the Mission to take place in, but you may
also decide which Mine the Mission occurs in if you’d like.
Note that if rolling randomly and the same Mine gets picked
in multiple Towns, you may simply roll again or choose
another Mine for the Mission to occur in, you can’t double-
up on the rewards and it doesn’t really make sense to do
multiple back-to-back Missions in the same Mine.
If you enter a Mine without having previously picked
up a Mission from a Town, you may only perform an
Exploration Mission [Basic:2], but ignore the fluff text and
the Posse only gains the XP reward and does not receive any
Gold reward from the expedition.
To complete a Mission picked up in a Town, the Heroes
travel to the Mine, finish out the Objective and then return
to the Town where they originally picked up the Mission
to get any rewards specified by the Adventure (XP, Gold,
or otherwise, unless specifically stated that they retrieve the
rewards from the Mine). Each Mission in a Mine is assumed
to take 1 full day to complete from the time the Posse enters
the Mine (does not include travel time to actually get to the
Mine itself). Also note that Health, Sanity, and Grit is not fully
restored when finishing a Mission down in the Mines or from
Other Worlds. In HexCrawl, Heroes only get one last Catch
Your Breath roll when an Adventure or Job is completed and
any damage they suffered is persistent until they get healed.
They also only regain 1 Grit at the end of an Adventure.
Bounties
Bounties that are picked up from the Frontier Outpost are
regional and pay out from ANY other Town that you visit,
while Bounties from the Sheriff’s Office only pay out when
you return to that specific Town. To determine a Frontier
Outpost Bounty, you can roll on the chart as normal, or
you can instead draw a Low Threat card. If you choose to
draw the card, the new Bounty covers every Enemy listed
on that Threat card and the Gold value is equal to $10 x
the Health of that Enemy. If the Enemy has a normal XP
value, the Hero that kills that Enemy gains the Bounty. If the
Enemy has a variable XP value (XP ‘+5 per Wound’), then
ALL Heroes gain the Bounty when that Enemy is defeated.
Frontier Outpost Bounties are persistent and last the rest of the
campaign unless you decide to select another Bounty.
Rewards
While Heroes need to travel back to the original Town
for their rewards, any effects from the Darkness escaping in
the event of failure still affect nearby Towns. In most cases,
the Town nearest to the Mine is impacted, but in the case of
multiple Towns being the same distance, all of those Towns
are affected by the Darkness escaping. If a Town that has
not been visited loses any Town Locations, you still need to
subtract those Locations whenever you go through the Town
Set Up process with those Towns.
26Failure
Due to how travel is altered in HexCrawl, some of the
Failure results for certain Missions need to be adjusted to
account for a multi-Town game:
Dark Deal (Caverns of Cynder Mission 3):
Each Hero gains 1 Corruption Point, ignoring Willpower.
Also, the nearest Town is Destroyed. Proceed directly to
an Escape Mission (Basic Mission 5), this is assumed to
happen at the same Mine.
Exploration (Basic Mission 2):
1 Random Town Location in the nearest Town is
Destroyed. Roll a D8 twice for Wilderness Encounters
each day until you visit another Town. You may end up
having multiple encounters on the same day.Shootout in the Streets (Frontier Town Mission 1):
Each Hero loses D6x$50. Also, the Heroes must leave
this Town and may not come back to this Town until
they have completed an Adventure.
Seal the Void Gate (Basic Mission 3):
The nearest Town is Destroyed. Proceed directly to
Escape (Basic Mission 5), this is assumed to happen at
the same Mine.Hanging High (Frontier Town Mission 2): Each Hero
gains D3 Corruption Points. Also, the Heroes must leave
this Town and may not come back to this Town until
they have completed an Adventure.
City of the Ancients (City of the Ancients Mission 4):
The Heroes each take D6 Wounds. Proceed directly to
Escape (Basic Mission 5), this is assumed to happen at
the same Mine.Bank Robbery (Frontier Town Mission 3):
Each Hero is at -1 Max Grit until the End of their
next Adventure. Also, the Heroes must leave this Town
and may not come back to this Town until they have
completed an Adventure.
Frozen Expedition (City of the Ancients Mission 6):
The nearest Town is Destroyed. Proceed directly to
Escape (Basic Mission 5), this is assumed to happen at
the same Mine.
Night of the Dead (Swamps of Death Mission 1):
The nearest Town is Destroyed by the Zombie epidemic
AND you must roll a D8 twice each day for Wilderness
Encounters until you visit another Town.
Swamps of Death (Swamps of Death Mission 4):
You may want to have the Posse stranded on the Jargono
Overland map as punishment for failing the Mission.
I would also suggest using Klutz’s amazing Jargono
Swamp Village instead of normal Town visits. More
information on Klutz’ Swamp Village can be found at:
http://boardgamegeek.com/filepage/111612/klutzs-jargono-
swamp-village
Cursed Idol (Swamps of Death Mission 5):
The nearest Town is Destroyed. Proceed directly to an
Escape Mission (Basic Mission 5), this is assumed to
happen at the same Mine.
Cracks in Reality (Caverns of Cynder Mission 1):
The nearest 3 Towns each have 1 Random Building and
their Hotels Destroyed.
Defend the Bridge (Caverns of Cynder Mission 2):
Until the Posse gets back into a Town, Travel Hazards
or Wilderness Events happen automatically at the start
of each day. At the next Town the Posse visits, roll two
dice to see if there is a Town Event and take the lower of
those two numbers that are rolled.
27
Jail Break (Frontier Town Mission 4):
Automatically add 1 Growing Dread card to the stack on
your next Adventure. Also, the Heroes must leave this
Town and may not come back to this Town until they
have completed an Adventure.HexCrawl
Mission
1
HIVE OF SCUM & VILLAINY
While sitting in an old saloon, an obviously disheveled and
drunken prospector saddles up next to you and demands that you
buy him a drink. Just as you’re about to get up and give him your
boot to his backside, he mentions that he just come back from the
biggest lode of Dark Stone that anyone has seen since Brimstone
was around. That gets your attention and you listen to the rest of his
tale. Unfortunately it seems to have gotten somebody else’s as well
and you see a member of another Gang scurry out of the bar faster
than a prairie fire with a tail wind. Rats! You buy the drunkard a
beer and hurry out to get to the Mine before that other crew gets
their filthy hands on that Dark Stone!
By the time you get to the Mine, you’re horrified to find
some fresh tracks leading in to the entrance. You rush in, hoping to
beat them to that sweet, sweet Dark Stone!
Set Up
The Mission uses the standard setup and all Heroes start
on the Mine Entrance Map Tile as normal.
Mission Goal
The Heroes are searching for a vast deposit of Dark
Stone down in these Mines, except they’re not alone. Another
group of Adventurers are looking to claim that Dark Stone
vein for themselves. To get to the massive Dark Stone deposit
that everyone is after, the Posse must find enough Clue Icons
on Exploration Tokens to get to their Objective.
There are three options for this Mission and the Posse
must choose before the Mission begins which Mission Length
the group wants to go on.
Mission LengthObjective
Small Deposit		Find 2 Clues
Medium DepositFind 3 Clues
Large Deposit		Find 4 Clues
Special Rules
The Competition
The Darkness marker not only measures the progress of the
Darkness in this Mine, but also tracks the progress of the other
Gang as they make their way through the Mine searching for the
Dark Stone deposit. When the Darkness marker and the Hero
marker meet, the two main groups of Adventurers come upon
each other for the final battle. Even after the two markers meet,
you should continue to make Hold Back the Darkness rolls.
Mixed Enemies
The Heroes have a chance of coming across either strange
monsters from the Void or members of the other Gang
themselves while searching for the Dark Stone vein. Whenever
an Attack result is drawn, look at whether the Exploration Token
has any Door or Gate Icons. If it has Door Icons, roll on the
appropriate Human Threat Chart, if there are any Gate Icons,
draw a Threat card as normal.
Final Battle (Objective)
The nature of the final battle will be determined by how
the Hero marker and the Darkness marker meet on the Depth
Track. The final battle will be one Threat Level above the
Posse’s current Level from the Human Threat Level Tables.
The final battle also triggers if the Heroes pick up the required
amount of Clue Icons for the Mission Length they’ve chosen
before the beginning of the Mission. If the Hero marker is
moved and enters the same space as the Darkness marker or
the Posse comes across the last required Clue Icon, then the
final battle uses a regular Attack setup with Enemies placed on
the Map Tile as normal.
28If the Darkness marker moves onto the space occupied by
the Hero marker as a result of a failed Hold Back the Darkness
roll or some other means, then the last battle is considered an
Ambush and you follow the special Ambush rules for Human
Enemies. This Final Battle can even occur in the middle of
another fight with Humans or Monsters (everyone targets the
Heroes in this case).
Objective
When the final Clue Icon is found or when the Hero marker
and the Darkness marker meet, then the Heroes have either found
the Dark Stone deposit and the other Gang in the Objective
Room or the Gang has ambushed the Posse and the final battle
begins. Ignore any other Attacks or Encounters listed on the final
Exploration Token (if applicable). Unless the Posse is Ambushed,
ignore any Door/Gate Icons on the token, as the Objective Room
has no exits.
Reveal all Growing Dread cards in the stack as normal
and then the Heroes begin a fight one Threat Level above their
normal Threat Level from the Human Threat Level tables. Once
all Enemies have been defeated, the Heroes have successfully
completed the Mission!
Reward
The rewards gained for the successful completion of
this Mission are dependent on the Mission Length the Posse
decides on beforehand and how many Clue Icons the group
has picked up by the time the Darkness marker and the Hero
marker meet up for the Final Battle. This Mission is only
considered a success if all Enemies are defeated in the Final
Battle. For each Clue Icon that the Posse finds, each Hero
will receive 20 XP and D3 Dark Stone up to the maximum
number of Clue Icons specified for the chosen Mission Length.
However, for each Clue Icon required by the Mission
Length that is not found before the Final Battle, each Hero’s
reward is reduced by -10 XP and -1 Dark Stone (minimum 0
on both).
Failure
If the Heroes are unsuccessful in trying to recover the Dark
Stone, then the other Gang gets ahold of all that Dark Stone
first and unloads it in the nearest Town. By the time you make
it back, all that Dark Stone in one place has set off an explosion
that has Destroyed D3 Random Buildings and has also
reduced the price of Dark Stone in Town by 50% (rounded
down) if you try to sell any.
29HexCrawl
Mission
2
Missing Expedition
A team of archaeologists from some damn-fool university has
ventured deep into a Mine in search of tools and artifacts from some long-
forgotten era. The team first passed through town weeks ago and nobody
has heard a peep out of them since then. A Professor from the university
has asked that someone stop by the Mine and do some investigating to see
what the team has been up to during that time. Ordinarily you wouldn’t
be bothering yourself with such folks, but when they started talking about
a reward, you just couldn’t help but accept their generous offer.
Set Up
This Mission starts with the Mine Entrance Map Tile
leading directly to a Crossroad Map Tile. All Heroes start on
the Mine Entrance Map Tile as normal.
Mission Goal
The Heroes must search the Mine to find and collect
5 Lost Journal Pages to be able to piece together what
happened to the expedition. Every Clue Icon found represents
D3 Lost Journal Pages in that Room. Once any Encounters
or Attacks on the Exploration Token have been fully resolved,
those Lost Journal Pages are collected.
Special Rules
Abyssal Energy (Objective)
Use a Dark Stone Token or some other marker to represent the
Abyssal Energy Token. The Abyssal Energy Token begins a number
of spaces from the Dark Gate equal to the number of spaces moved
by the Darkness marker on the Depth Track and at the start of every
turn, will move forwards spaces towards the Mine Entrance Map
Tile. At the start of their turn, if a Hero is ever the same number of
spaces to the Mine Entrance Map Tile as the Abyssal Energy Token,
that Hero takes D8 Sanity Damage (ignoring Willpower).
Multiple Heroes Required
This Mission requires that multiple Heroes go out on the
Mission. A solo Hero may play this Mission, however a Human
ally will need to be added to the group. This can be any of the
official allies or an Archaeologist may be added to the Mission
with the following stats:
Mixed Enemies
Archaeologist
The Heroes have a chance of coming across either strange
monsters from the Void or members of the Archaeological
expedition themselves while searching the Mines. Whenever an
Attack is called for, whether an Ambush or a regular Attack, roll a
D6. On a 1, 2, or 3, draw a Threat card as normal. On a 4, 5, or 6,
instead roll on the appropriate Human Threat Chart.
Any Humans encountered have been changed by the power
emanating from this Mine and changed into mindless drones. Each
time a Hero takes one or more Wounds from a Human Enemy’s
Attack, that Hero also takes 1 Corruption Hit (note that this is 1
Corruption Hit for the whole Enemy Attack, not per Hit).
Move 4
Cunning 3
Health 10 (Def 5+)
Sanity 10 (Will 3+)
No Combat actions available
Any Wounds or Sanity damage that affects the Heroes during
Encounters, also affects the Archaeologist. If the Archaeologist is
KO’d before the Objective Room is discovered, the Mission is
finished and the Hero has failed.
30Puzzle Doors
When Looking Through the Doorway during this Mission, the
next Map Tile will not be automatically revealed. Instead, Heroes will
need to solve a puzzle to open vault doors between Map Tiles. This
will require multiple Heroes working together to reveal Map Tiles.
One Hero must be at the open puzzle connection and another Hero
must be positioned at the puzzle connection for the entryway to their
current tile. During their Activations, both Heroes must successfully
make a Cunning 4+ test on the same turn in order to reveal the next
Map Tile. Do not remove Map Tiles once they have been placed as
the Heroes will need to retrace their steps back through the Mine.
Objective
The Final Journal Pages
When the Heroes discover the Clue Icon with the last
Journal Pages they need (enough to give them at least 5
Journal Pages total), they have found the Objective Room
and the remains of the expedition! However, some foreboding
energy is seeping forth from a Dark Gate that the expedition
stumbled across. There is no hope to defeat the thing, the
most you can hope to do is seal the infernal thing back in!
Ignore any Attacks or Encounters listed on the final
Exploration Token. Also, ignore any Door/Gate Icons on the
token, as the Objective Room has only one exit and that is to a
Dark Gate (a Gate End Cap). Heroes may not move through
the Dark Gate as it leads directly to a black abyss that will kill any
Hero that steps into it. Also place the Abyssal Energy Token a
number of spaces from the Dark Gate equal to the number of
spaces moved by the Darkness marker on the Depth Track.
Reveal all Growing Dread cards in the stack as normal and
then the Heroes must face an Epic Threat (draw a Threat Card,
there are no Humans left here). However, the players need not
kill every Enemy to win the Mission. Instead, the Heroes must
make it back to the Mine Entrance Map Tile and on to one
of the Starting Area spaces where the Heroes first began the
Mission. Any Heroes that make it on to one of those 6 spaces
automatically escapes the Mine and is taken off the board. The
Mission is failed if any of the Heroes do not escape the Mine
before the Abyssal Energy Token reaches the Mine Entrance
Starting Area.
Reward
Each Hero receives 25 XP and may draw a card from the
Mine Artifact deck.
Failure
If the Heroes fail the Mission, the Darkness that was
unleashed by the expedition escapes the Mine and drives all
nearby Towns insane. The nearest 3 Towns to the Mine are
Destroyed. If not playing with the HexCrawl Overland map,
the Heroes may not visit a Frontier Town, but instead must
proceed directly on to the next Adventure.
31Hostages
HexCrawl
Mission
3
A gang of robbers went on a crime spree and have holed
themselves up in their hideout, but they’ve taken them some pretty
important hostages on their way in there and someone needs to
go in and rescue them innocents. Being that you’re the toughest
sumsabitches in the area, you’ve been elected for that prestigious
honor and most important job. Don’t mess it up.
Set Up
This Mission uses the standard set up and all Heroes start
on the Mine Entrance Map Tile as normal.
The Heroes will need to discreetly travel through the
Mines and attempt to rescue the Hostages that the robbers
took with them, preferably alive. The number of Hostages
taken is dependent on the difficulty of the Mission the Heroes
wish to embark on:
Short
Objective
		5 Hostages taken
Medium 		7 Hostages taken
Long9 Hostages taken
		
Special Rules
Deadly Countdown
The Depth Track operates a little bit differently on this
Mission. The Posse still makes Hold Back the Darkness rolls each
turn, but whenever the Darkness marker passes or lands on a
blood spatter space, it signifies that one of the Hostages has been
killed and you do not draw a Darkness card.
Hostages (Objective)
For this Mission, Growing Dread cards are revealed
immediately when drawn rather than being placed on the stack.
Human Enemies
The Heroes will mostly encounter Human Enemies while on
this Mission, unless a Monster is brought out as the result of an
Encounter or Darkness card. Whenever directed to draw a Threat
card, instead roll on the Human Threat Chart based on the
number of Heroes in the Posse.
No Gates
Mission Goal
Mission Length		
Immediate Dread
Whenever the Heroes comes across a Clue
Icon, ignore its normal result and instead roll a
Human Threat at the Posse’s level. Also place D3+1
Hostage Tokens or Models with the Enemies (or as
many Hostages are left in the Mission), place these
Hostages last and in front of the Enemies when possible. These
Hostages are being used as human shields by these dastardly
robbers. Any Gun shots or Melee attacks by the Heroes that are
missed with a roll of ‘1’ when the target of the attack is within
1 space of the Hostage, will Hit a Hostage instead. These
Hostages have a Health of 5 (Defense 0).
No Gates can be found in this Mission. Any time a Gate
would be placed, instead place a normal Door.
Stealth
If any of the Heroes fires a Gun during this Mission, there’s a
chance it will alert some of the robbers in the Mines and they may
panic and kill a Hostage. Whenever a Hero shoots a Gun weapon,
roll a D6. On a 1, a Hostage somewhere else in the Mines has
been killed. Only roll when the Heroes fire Guns, not the robbers,
as the Heroes powerful weapons are what will alert the robbers.
Objective
The Heroes are trying to bring back as many of the Hostages
as they can alive. The Mission is over when all Hostages are
either rescued or killed and all revealed Enemies on the board are
eliminated. If by the end of the Mission, the Heroes have rescued
less Hostages than those that have been killed. The Mission is
failed, regardless of how the Heroes performed on the Mission.
Reward
For rescuing most of the Hostages, each Hero gains
(10 XP + $25) x the number of Hostages rescued alive and
each Hero may draw one Loot card.
Failure
For allowing a blood bath to unfold on their watch, each
Hero loses one permanent Sanity and takes D6 Corruption
Points, ignoring Willpower.
3233HexCrawl
Mission
4
Down on the Bayou
[Requires Swamps of Death]
You’ve trekked far into the Swamps of Jargono in search of
somethin’ that didn’t turn out to be much of nothin’. And then the
rain started. So you holed yourselves up in an ancient temple til the
rainin’ stopped. Now you’re ready to leave, but trouble is the dang
whole place is so flooded over that you can’t just walk back. Luckily
there’s an old dock and a rickety old boat nearby that you can use
to get around. Now to just find your way out of here.Mission Goal
Set UpImmediate Dread
This Mission starts on the Swamps of Jargono side of
the Mine Entrance Map Tile with an End Cap covering the
connection. Place the Boat Tile adjacent to the End Cap.
Other than beginning the game in the Swamps of Jargono, all
Heroes start on the Mine Entrance Map Tile as normal.
The Heroes need to find their way to higher ground if
they want to hope to get out of this swamp and back to Earth.
The Heroes will need to travel around getting the Lay of the
Land, looking for landmarks or other guides that might lead
them back the way they came.
Special Rules
For this Mission, Growing Dread cards are revealed
immediately when drawn rather than being placed on the stack.
Flyers Off the Map
Enemies with the ability ‘Flight’ need not end their Movement
on a space on a Map Tile. Instead, they may go “off the board”
and any number of them may be considered adjacent to any
figures that are on the edge of a Map Tile. Enemies with ‘Flight’
may also attack Heroes on the Boat Tile.
34No Looking Through The Door
There are no direct connections from one room to the next,
instead, any time a Map Tile is placed, place end caps on all the
puzzle connections. The only way the Heroes can travel between
the Map Tiles is by using the Boat Tile.
To reveal new Map Tiles, the Heroes can spend their
Activation in the Boat Searching the Bayou, in which case they can
do nothing else during their Activation. After Searching the Bayou,
draw a Map card and place its Map Tile on the board with an
Exploration Token. That Exploration Token is not revealed until
a Hero exits the Boat onto one of its connected End Cap Map
Tiles. Encounters only affect those Heroes currently on a Map
Tile. Advanced Encounters do not occur until after the Exploration
Token is revealed. Note that Searching the Bayou takes the place of
the Looking Through the Door search action normally found down
in the Mines, but of course there are no doors out in the bayou or
when you’re on a boat (thus the different term).
Boat Travel
To get around, the Heroes must travel by Boat to get from
one Map Tile to the next. The Boat only travels between End Cap
Map Tiles, but can travel to any End Cap Map Tile that has been
revealed. The Boat is only considered to be adjacent to one End
Cap at a time.
The Boat Tile can only hold three Heroes at a time and at
least one Hero is needed in the Boat for it to be moved anywhere.
Any of the Heroes on the Boat can move it during their Activation
and it costs 1 Move to travel to any other End Cap that has been
revealed. To get on or off the Boat, a Hero must spend the rest of
their Movement and there must be a free space on either the Boat
or an adjacent End Cap Map Tile.
Lay of the Land (Objective)
After the Heroes having Scavenged a Map Tile and if there
are no Enemies on the Map Tile, they may choose to spend
their Activation getting the Lay of the Land by rolling a
die
and putting a Lay of the Land marker on that Map Tile. You can
use any additional marker available, just something that tracks
how many times you’ve attempted the Lay of the Land roll (or
just track it by how many Scavenge tokens are on the board as
long as you always attempt the roll each time you Scavenge).
You may only attempt a Lay of the Land roll once per Map Tile.
If the number is equal to or less than the number of times they
have already made Lay of the Land rolls (ignoring the Swamp
Entrance Map Tile), then that Hero has found a way forward
that leads to a Gate back to Earth. Immediately after any Lay of
the Land roll is made however, roll a D6. On a ‘1’, any Heroes
on that Map Tile are Ambushed by an Epic Threat.
35
Objective
To complete the Mission, the Posse must have successfully
gotten a Lay of the Land roll and defeated any remaining
Enemies on that Map Tile and all Heroes will need to be on
that same Map Tile.
Reward
Each Hero receives 30 XP and either finds enough
trinkets valued at $75 x the number Lay of the Land markers
on the board or they may draw a Jargono Artifact card. So
if there are 5 Lay of the Land markers on the Board at the end
of the Mission, a Hero could earn $375 (5 x $75). Each Hero
may choose their Reward differently.
Failure
If the Heroes fail the Mission, they are lost in the Swamps
of Jargono for
days before they eventually get their
bearings and find a Gate back to Earth. Each Hero takes
Wounds and the Posse must immediately begin an
Escape Mission before they are able to visit another Town.HexCrawl
Mission
5
Race Against Time!
This whole mine is pretty unstable and is just as like to start falling
down around you! You don’t have much time to get what you came
here for and get the hell outta this mine. If you can’t find that thing in
there in time, you lose the treasure and very likes you might lose some
limbs in the process too!
Set Up
This Mission starts with the Mine Entrance Map Tile
leading directly to a T-Junction Map Tile. All Heroes start on the
T-Junction Map Tile and may be placed in any spaces they like
that are not also on the Mine Entrance Map Tile.
Mission Goal
The Heroes are down in this Mine looking for a McGuffin.
They need to get to it and get the hell out of the Mine before
everything collapses down all around them.
Special Rules
Immediate Dread
For this Mission, Growing Dread cards are revealed
immediately when drawn rather than being placed on the stack.
May Not Flee
Once the Adventure begins, the Heroes may not Flee; they
are on the clock and the Mission is not successfully completed
until all Heroes make it to the Mine Entrance Starting Area.
McGuffin (Objective)
The Heroes may not discover the McGuffin if they have
already triggered the Treacherous Escape Special Rule. Anytime
the Heroes find a Clue Icon on an Exploration Token, they may
declare that they have discovered the McGuffin and all Heroes
must now reach the Mine Entrance Starting Area to successfully
complete the Mission. Locating the McGuffin is not actually
required to complete the Mission, but finding it does influence
the Reward that the Posse can claim.
No Gates
No Gates can be found in this Mission. Any time a Gate
would be placed, instead place a normal Door.
Treacherous Escape (Objective)
At the end of any turn in which one or more Heroes is
standing on the Mine Entrance Map Tile, roll a special Hold Back
the Darkness test (ignore Depth Events). If failed, the Darkness
marker is not moved, but instead there is an Epic Threat there
waiting for you the Posse attempting to block your escape! If the
test is successful, the coast is clear and the Heroes are able to
hightail it out of there if they all reach the Mine Entrance Starting
Area. The Heroes may not explore any more Rooms or discover
the McGuffin once they have triggered the Treacherous Escape
Special Rule and can only leave the Mine after that.
36Unstable Mine
The Depth Track works differently in this Mission and instead
is used as a timer to track the deterioration of the Mine around
the Heroes. The Darkness marker automatically moves one space
every turn regardless of whether the Posse makes their Hold Back
the Darkness test or not. The normal Hold Back the Darkness tests
are only used to check for Depth Events.
Objective
When the Heroes have decided they want to leave the Mine,
they need to head back to the Mine Entrance Map Tile and all
Heroes must reach the Mine Entrance Starting Area to successfully
complete the Mission. Not all Enemies are required to be
defeated in order to complete the Mission.
Reward
Each Hero receives (5 XP and $50) x the number of
steps on the Depth Track the Hero Posse marker is from the
Mine Entrance space.
In addition, if the Heroes discovered the McGuffin and all
Heroes made it back to the Mine Entrance Starting Area before
the Darkness marker reaches the Mine Entrance on the Depth
Track, roll a
die. If the number rolled is equal to or less than
the number of spaces the Hero Posse marker is from the Mine
Entrance space, then each Hero may draw a Mine Artifact card.
Failure
If all Heroes fail to reach the Mine Entrance Starting Area
before the Darkness marker reaches the Mine Entrance on the
Depth Track, then each Hero must discard a number of Gear or
Artifact cards with a total listed Gold value of at least $200 as they
are lost in their frantic dash to make it out of the Mine. Any Hero
that cannot discard enough Gear or Artifacts like this instead lose
one permanent Health and roll once on the Injury Chart.
37HexCrawl
Mission
6
Confrontation!
This is it, you’ve come to the lair of a great supernatural evil,
hoping beyond hope that you’ll be able to put an end to this menace
for good. Chances are most of you won’t live to see this through to
the end, but by golly at least you tried.
Set Up
This Mission starts with the Mine Entrance Map Tile
leading directly to a Crossroad Map Tile. All Heroes start on
the Mine Entrance Map Tile as normal.
You will also need either The Big Room Mine Map
Tile or The Devil’s Pit Mine Map Tile (choose one). Remove
the corresponding Map Card from the Mine Map Deck.
Whichever room is chosen will be referred to from here as
the Objective Room.
You will also want to decide on a Boss Enemy for the
Final Battle, with Beli’al being the suggested XXL Enemy to
use, but any Enemy that is thematic enough for your Hero’s
Final Battle should work.
Mission Goal
Your goal is to track down a supernatural menace to
his lair in the Objective Room and end his existence to bring
peace to the area once and for all. To get to the Objective
Room the Heroes will need to find 5 Clue Icons, after which
the Objective Room will be revealed.
This Mission can be used to end a Campaign on an Epic
note, but if you just want to play this as a regular Mission you
can do that as well. There are two sets of Rewards & Failure
results, one set if you are treating this as just a regular Mission
and one if you are using this to cap a Campaign.
Special Rules
Permadeath
Heroes are not simply KO’d on this Mission. If a Hero is
reduced to 0 Sanity or 0 Health and you are out of Revive Tokens,
they are permanently Dead (though they may still be resurrected
later on if just a regular Mission), may the gods have mercy on
their souls.
Despair
Though the Heroes have made it far, they know that they’re
surrounded by evil on all sides and that they may very well die on
this last Mission. All Heroes are -1 to their Initiative and all of their
Willpower rolls (minimum of 1).
Dimensional Nexus
The Void energies here are so great that they’re threatening to
tear apart the very fabric of reality! There are Void Gates opening
at an alarming rate. When revealing Exploration Tokens, Door and
Gate Icons are swapped. Door Icons are actually Gates and Gate
Icons are actually Doors. Draw a new World card whenever a
Hero looks through a Gate. The Posse may pass through multiple
Gates to multiple Other Worlds at many different places.
Ultimate Corruption
This place has become the ultimate den of filth and
corruption. With each step the Heroes take further into this heart
of Darkness, the Heroes can feel their humanity being stripped
away via some terrible energy. Whenever either the Hero marker
or Darkness marker advances on the Depth Track, the Heroes
should all roll for Corruption as they would at the end of a normal
Adventure. Roll a D6 for each Dark Stone, item with a Dark Stone
icon or Dark Stone upgrade that the Hero is carrying. For every
1, 2, or 3 rolled, take 1 Corruption Hit.
Final Battle (Objective)
After the fifth Clue Icon is found on this Mission, ignore
any Encounters or Attacks on the Exploration Token and attach
the Objective Room to your current Map Tile via an open
puzzle connection (you may have to use a Gate to connect it if
you are in an Other World). Immediately place the Boss Enemy
and draw an Epic Threat card. During the Final Fight, the
Posse will be drawing Low Threat cards. Use the Objective
Room Map Card to determine which Gate those Enemies will
randomly enter through.
Objective
Objective Room
Once the Objective Room has been attached to the board,
the Heroes have reached the Objective and the Final Fight! Reveal
all Growing Dread cards in the stack as normal and then the
Heroes must face an Epic Threat in addition to the Boss Enemy
that you decided on at the beginning of the Mission. Each open
puzzle connection of this Room is connected to a Gate, but other
than the entrance that the Heroes enter in through, they may not
travel through any of the other Gates. At the start of each turn
draw a Low Threat card and use the Objective Room Map Card
to determine which Gate those Enemies enter through. Those
Enemies are added immediately to the Fight.
38Mission Reward
The vile Monster is defeated! Each Hero receives 100 XP and
may draw an Artifact card from a Random Other World.
Mission Failure
If the Heroes fail this Mission, then whatever supernatural
menace they were facing escapes into the surrounding countryside
and goes on a rampage, Destroying all nearby Towns ( nearest
Towns if playing HexCrawl). The Heroes may not visit a Frontier
Town, but must instead proceed directly on to the next Adventure.
Campaign Reward
The Campaign is successful! You’ve vanquished the
ultimate evil and saved the World in the process. It’d be hard
to top this and after an Adventure like this one, the Heroes
all hang up their hats for good and take up owning nice quiet
businesses in Town. They go on to live quiet, peaceful lives,
every now and then filling the ears of some young so-and-so
who happens to ask about the time they saved the World. The
Heroes are never sure if they’re just being humored or if the
youngin’s actually want to hear the story, but they tell it just
the same as they’ll never be able to forget what happened.
Choose a Town and a Town Location for each Hero.
In any future campaigns, any Heroes that visit those Town
Locations in those specific Towns get +1 to Location Event
rolls. Those retired Heroes are always willing to help out
the next generation of Heroes that stumble through.
Campaign Failure
The Campaign comes to a terrifying conclusion, not to
mention the World. You have failed the Earth and all of its
inhabitants through your weakness. Your Heroes are despised
by their fellow people, not that it matters much because the rest
of humanity is busy being hunted to the point of extinction by
otherworldly abominations that see Mankind as mere ants.
Now go get yourself a nice cold glass of milk and spill
it on the floor so you can cry over it, Loser. You’ve got
nothing better to do before the World ends...
39JOBS BOARD
Heroes may now visit the Jobs Board to look for what are mostly short-duration mini-missions that take place on the
Overland map, though some may be more time-intensive than others. The Short Story campaign style requires that the Posse
complete Jobs in order to move the story along, though in the Mine Blast campaign, they’re not required. Some Jobs may even
lead into Missions on their own, while others will take place as optional conditions that can be completed alongside other Jobs
and/or Missions.
Choosing Jobs
Each Town will have three Jobs posted at a time, the
Posse may select one of those Jobs if they want or pass on
all of them without repercussions unless the Job is listed as
‘Mandatory!’ in which case the Posse MUST take on that Job.
The Posse as a whole may only take on one Job at a time, but
may quit a Job and pick up a new one at any time. Any Jobs
that are quit are failed and their ‘Failure’ result occurs.
Heroes may view the Jobs Board at any time during a
Town Stay. Jobs are chosen at random by rolling a D100
(2D10), consulting the Jobs Board and selecting from the
number rolled plus or minus one. So if you rolled ‘20’, you
would be able to pick from Jobs 19, 20, & 21. Once a Job is
accepted, the Heroes are bound by all the conditions of that
Job and if the Job is dropped, it is failed. Mandatory! Jobs
must be taken regardless of what else is available.
Care should be taken when selecting Jobs. If you have
a choice, be sure to note each Job’s Location and Time
Limit, as some Job’s may be nearly impossible to successfully
complete depending on where you’re located on the map.
There’s no sense picking up a Job you know you’ll fail and
then having to deal with the Failure consequences. Also note
the Town where you pick Jobs up from. In some cases the
Jobs will refer to an “Originating Town”, this is the Town
where you originally got the Job and sometimes Reward/
Failure results will have an impact on that Town.
Job Listings
Each Job listing provides information relevant to the Job
at hand. When selecting Jobs, it will be important to review
what the requirements are for each Job, such as the Location
you need to travel to and what, if any, Time Limit there is
on the Job. You should try to only select Jobs that you have a
chance of successfully completing, otherwise if you later have
to drop a Job or fail to complete it, you will have to follow
the ‘Failure’ results listed in the Job’s listing.
#The number rolled using D100
TitleVaguely descriptive title that may or
may not clue you in as to what to
expect from the Job.
KeywordsKeywords related to the Job. Jobs
with the ‘Mandatory!’ keyword
indicate that you have automatically
picked up the Job and must
complete it successfully or you must
deal with the Failure result.
BackgroundFlavor text that briefly summarizes
what the issue is
LocationThis indicates where the Posse will
need to travel to in order to attempt
the Job. Some Jobs occur at Towns,
others at Mines, and still others will
simply give directions to a general
Terrain type or hex:
Completing Jobs
Jobs with a Time Limit will require the Posse to make
use of the Depth Track to keep track of how much time they
have left. If a Job has no Time Limit, you can ignore this.
Place a marker on the number indicated by the Job’s Time
Limit, then move the marker one space forward for each day
that passes. When the marker reaches the Darkness Start space,
the Time Limit is up at the end of that day and in most cases
the Job is failed.
Local Town: The current Town the
Posse is located in.
Random Town/Mine: Roll D20
on the Town or Mine Chart to
determine which Town or Mine the
Heroes need to travel to for the Job.
This should be done after the Job is
chosen, not before.
40Location
(cont.)
Random Clue Site: You will need
to travel to a space a certain distance
away to Search for Clues.
< > Hex: This will usually list a
specific type of Terrain that the
Heroes will have to travel to and
Search or perform some other action
on to progress with the Job. Unless
otherwise specified, you can only
Search or do whatever you need to
on those types of hexes to complete
the Job.
<Location>+<Location>: To find
this Location, start from the first
<Location> listed, then follow the
<Location> directions after that. This
will usually indicate a number of
spaces to go after that, which will
sometimes require you to use the
Random Hex Diagram to determine
where that hex is.
Time Limit
The number of days that the Posse
has to complete the Job. Some
Jobs will have an ‘Immediate’ Time
Limit, in which case they start
right away in the current Town the
Heroes are in.
DescriptionThe specific directions the Heroes
will need to follow in order to
attempt the Job.
RewardThe reward result the Heroes
will find if they complete the Job
successfully. Each Job’s ‘Description’
should detail what is required of the
Heroes to get a Job’s reward.
FailureThe Failure result if the Posse does
not complete the Job within the
specified Time Limit or the Heroes
trigger some other Failure condition
found within the Job’s ‘Description’.
Dropping a Job before it is done
will also trigger a Job’s Failure result.
41
Job Rewards
In most cases, the Heroes will need to travel back to the
Originating Town (the Town where the Heroes got the Job in the
first place) in order to pick up their rewards, though if it makes
sense to you that you would get the reward at your current
location, then by all means collect your reward there.
Dropping Jobs
The Posse may opt to quit a Job before it is done with it,
but if the Posse quits the Job, it must follow the Failure results
given in the Job’s listing. In some cases, nothing will happen,
in others there will be consequences for the Heroes’ failure.
Jobs & Missions
While some Jobs may lead directly into Missions, these
Missions are specifically attached to your current Job and
don’t count against any limits on the number of Missions you
can pick up. Each Town only has one Mission available at a
time, regardless of any Jobs you’ve taken on. You may pick
up a Mission and still have a Job active at the same time and
you may complete these in any order. Each Job or Mission is
considered a separate Adventure, so completing either will end
an ‘Adventure’ for the purposes of timing, even if you are still
actively involved in the other Adventure.
Exploration Tokens
Exploration Tokens are used with Jobs similarly to how
they are used down in the Mines when exploring new rooms.
However, there are some differences in when you would
shuffle the Overland Exploration Tokens:
1) You start a new game session,
2) You start a new Job,
3) Whenever you transition between using
the Overland map & any Map Tiles,
4) Whenever you run out of unrevealed
Exploration Tokens.CAMPAIGNS
Campaigns are meant to be played over multiple gaming sessions and can last as long as your gaming group wants. Some
groups may prefer to random unconnected adventures each time, while others may want a longer term, epic story. Multiple
campaign styles are provided for you to look over depending on how casual vs hard-core you want your games to be. Some may
be virtually impossible to get through, while others don’t really have any set structure to them, it just depends on what your group
wants to do with its time.
SANDBOX CAMPAIGN
The Sandbox campaign isn’t so much a campaign style
as it is just a free-roaming mode of play. This style is for more
casual, open-ended games where you might have an irregular
cast of Heroes each time when you play. This mode could also
be used in-between some of the other campaign styles if you
wanted a break from world-ending events and epic storylines
and wanted to just wander around the map.
Special Rules
In Sandbox mode, Missions and Jobs are picked up from
Towns as normal. Simply roll or choose a Mission or Job to
get going. Time isn’t tracked for anything other than for Jobs
that have time limits.
Objectives
Your objective is to enjoy the game. Though by choosing
an ultra-casual campaign style, you appear to have a problem
with making commitments in life, so we wouldn’t want to
burden you with actually taking responsibility for anything.
Especially nothing as important as saving the world. Or doing
your own laundry. Or your dishes. You should really move out
of your parent’s basement and give your Mom a break.
<cough> <cough>
Failure
You only fail if everyone in your Posse dies, though Towns
are still destructible, so potentially if every Town on the map
gets destroyed you’re SOL, but that’s your own fault, slacker.
Set Up
To play a Sandbox campaign you’ll just need a few
additional items:
• HexCrawl Overland map
• Mine Tracker
• Town Tracker
• Campaign Tracker (optional)
• Gameplay Tokens (optional)
42SHORT STORY CAMPAIGN
The Short Story campaign is a shorter-duration story-
driven campaign modeled similarly to games like Descent
and Star Wars Imperial Assault. The campaign is structured
around Story Missions, which not only provide additional
rules for the standard Missions found in the Adventure Books,
but strings them together in a branching narrative structure
and provides a definite ending point for a campaign. There’s
nothing to stop you from continuing on with your Heroes
into a casual Sandbox campaign or starting up another Short
Story campaign, but it breaks a campaign up into sizable
chunks that may be easier to get friends in on. The Missions in
this campaign style are based off of those found in the official
Adventure Books and arranged in such a way as to provide
a [hopefully] coherent story, rather than random Missions
occurring organically.
Special Rules
In this campaign style, Missions are not gained as usual
by randomly rolling up Missions in Towns. Instead, there will
be a number of Story Missions that will provide a narrative
and explain any differences in the Rules/Rewards/Failure results
of a Mission, as well as provide next steps for what the next
Story Mission will be for the Posse. Each Story Mission can be
picked up from any Town (unless otherwise noted in the Story
Mission description). In between each Story Mission, the Posse
may need to complete a series of Jobs before advancing to the
next Story Mission. Jobs can be picked up as normal by rolling
on the Jobs Board.
Objectives
The only goal of the Short Story campaign is to just make
it through to the end of the storyline. What you do after that
is up to you. You could either start up another Short Story
campaign or convert it into one of the other campaign styles.
Failure
The Short Story campaign will still progress regardless of
whether or not you fail any Missions. If you somehow screw
up enough to lose every single Town on the map, that could be
considered Failure.
Set Up
To play a Short Story campaign you’ll just need a few
additional items:
• HexCrawl Overland map
• Mine Tracker
• Town Tracker
• Campaign Tracker / Short Story Campaign Log
• Gameplay Tokens (optional)
43HELL ON EARTH CAMPAIGN
In this hardcore campaign style, the destruction of
Brimstone had wide-ranging effects on the surrounding area.
Monsters poured forth from Void Gates in every human
Settlement and subjugated the inhabitants, using them like cattle
for their own twisted purposes. The Posse begins this campaign
on one of the edge of the Overland map on a Road hex,
they’ve just entered the Brimstone region after hearing reports
of terrible happenings.
Rating
Consult this table to see how well your Hell on Earth
campaign went:
Surviving		
Towns
Result
1–4		
So Long and Thanks for all
the Nothing!
Congratulations on doing jack squat,
were you even playing the game?
Special Rules
Whenever the Posse would enter a Settlement, they
must immediately begin a Town Overrun Mission [Frontier
Town:5]. Successfully completing the Mission frees that Town.
For every Town that is successfully freed, permanently add 1
Growing Dread card to the stack at the beginning of EVERY
Mission for the duration of the campaign. Any Towns that are
freed begin with only a single Town Location, as every other
Location was destroyed by Monsters or converted into ghastly
slaughterhouses. The normal Town Construction rules do not
apply in this campaign. To build new Town Locations, the
Posse must complete Missions. You may choose to ignore the
normal Reward results for any Mission and donate the Rewards
of that Mission towards rebuilding the Town. Instead of a
normal Reward, the Town gains a new Location (Heroes still
collect XP, but do not get anything else; up to a maximum of 8
Locations per Town).
5–8		
Meh.
I guess you rolled some dice around.
Don’t you have a game of Magic the
Gathering to get back to?
7–12 		At Least You Tried
You’re a sorry sack of somethin’ who
allowed almost the entire population
around Brimstone to die horrible,
horrible deaths, but at least you did more
than that Magic player. You’ve earned a
sip of whiskey.
13–18		
THANK YOU [player name]!
BUT OUR PRINCESS IS IN
ANOTHER CASTLE!
Objectives
18 		Slow Clap
The goal of the Hell on Earth campaign style is to free
as many Towns on the map as possible from their demonic
tormentors. At the end of the campaign, after you’ve freed the
last Town on the Overland map, tally up how many Towns are
still standing and look up the Surviving Towns Chart to see how
you rated.
You put up quite a helluva an effort
and saved most of the Towns around
Brimstone from destruction. Some were
lost along the way, but those people were
probably assholes anyways and won’t be
missed. They likely deserved it.
Failure
19		
Mad Max
The only way to “fail” this campaign is if every last
Town on the Overland map is destroyed. Then you pretty
much suck and you should feel bad. Are you sure this is the
right game for you? There might be a regular bingo game
your local church puts on that you can get in on...
Though you walked in on a land on the
brink of destruction, you managed to
save every last Town (or mostly every
last Town) from being destroyed. You’ve
freed the people here from a horrible
fate at the hands of these creatures from
the Void. Songs will be sung in Saloons
around the region for generations.
Set Up
To play the Hell on Earth campaign style you’ll need a
few additional items:
• Frontier Town expansion
• HexCrawl Overland map
• Mine Tracker
• Town Tracker
• Campaign Tracker
• Gameplay Tokens (optional)
20		
Cheater!
You are probably lying and you’re a
goddamn bastard for lying to the game.
Go to Hell!
44Mine Status
MINE BLAST CAMPAIGN
The Mine Blast campaign is the campaign formerly
known as “the HexCrawl campaign”, with a few tweaks from
the previously released version of these rules. This is a long-
term campaign without much of a storyline, but instead gives
a relatively simple, yet tough goal for the party to fulfill. For
a more structured, yet shorter-term campaign, you should
probably try the Short Story campaign style. This campaign
is potentially un-winnable as the Towns across the region will
descend into something resembling a death spiral as you try to
destroy Mines before all the human settlements in the area are
destroyed, dooming humanity’s chances at stopping this threat.
Special Rules
In this campaign style you will need to keep track of the
Status of Mines and Towns on the Overland map. This will
determine the difficulty of some things and also affects the
Overland Darkness Track. There’s also a special Overland action
available to the Heroes known as the Ritual of Sealing that can
be used to seal the Void energies within the Mine itself. In
addition, whenever a Wilderness Encounter occurs, the Heroes
should also make a special Overland Hold Back the Darkness
roll, which will get harder as the campaign continues.
Objectives
There are 17 Mines spread across the region surrounding
Brimstone, the Mine Blast campaign will take the Heroes
across the land attempting to Seal or Destroy those Mines.
The final showdown will occur beneath the Ruins of
Brimstone (Mine #20), the epicenter of the chaos that has
engulfed the region. It was there where the Darkness first
slipped through into our world and that is where Humanity
will make its last stand against the terrors of the Void.
Failure
If the Overland Darkness Track ever reaches the Hero Start
space or if all Towns on the Overland map are Destroyed, the
Heroes have lost the campaign. Good luck keeping that from
happening, no pressure.
Set Up
To play the Mine Blast campaign style you’ll need a few
additional items:
• HexCrawl Overland map
• Overland Darkness Track (Depth Track)
• Mine Tracker
• Town Tracker
• Campaign Tracker / Mine Blast Campaign Log
• Gameplay Tokens
• optional: XXL Enemy Expansion
45
Every Mine will have a status, the default status is ‘Active’
and indicates that there are Dark Stone concentrations and Void
Gates located at that Mine. Mines can become Sealed, Destroyed,
or, if the Void energies permeating those Mines becomes too
great, the Mine becomes Overrun and the Heroes will not be
able to enter that Mine anymore. The Ruins of Brimstone are
permanently Overrun throughout the campaign, but can be
entered for the final Mission.
Active Mine
The default status of a Mine is Active. This indicates that Void
energies are present at this Mine and Adventures are possible at
this Mine as normal.
Sealed Mine
The connection between our world and the Void has
been severed here. Heroes may choose to have a future
Mission at a Sealed Mine, but this causes the Mine to become
Active again.
There are two ways to Seal a Mine: on the Overland map or
upon successful completion of a Mission. In either case, the
Posse will need to perform a Ritual of Sealing using an Occult
Scroll Side Bag Token. If successful, this will change the status
of a Mine to ‘Sealed’, which can be cheaper and easier to do
than Destroying a Mine at first, but may only be a temporary
solution and becomes harder as time goes on in the campaign.
Destroyed Mine
The Mine has been blown up and all traces of the
Darkness have been forever wiped out when a Mine
is Destroyed.No further Adventures can happen at a
Destroyed Mine.
Mines can be Destroyed at the successful completion of a
Mission by using an Explosives Side Bag Token to blow a
Mine up and change its status to ‘Destroyed’. They can also
be Destroyed via the Blow the Mine Mission [Basic:6).
Overrun Mine
The Void energies from the Dark Stone deposits here
have become too great and the Mine is bursting with
power from beyond the Gates. Heroes may not enter Overrun
Mines as they have become toxic to all Human life and will kill
anyone that tries to enter them. Mines become Overrun when the
Heroes fail a Mission in a Mine or through Overland Darkness
Events (failing a Town Mission does not do this however).
No further Adventures can happen at an Overrun Mine.
Overrun Mines may not be Destroyed with Explosives or
Sealed with an Occult Scroll.Overland Darkness Track
Special Overland Actions:
Overland Hold Back the Darkness
n/a
2D6 roll made whenever a Wilderness Encounter
occurs on the Overland map. Difficulty is
determined by the position of the Hero marker on
the Overland Darkness Track, modified by the number
of Overrun Mines and Destroyed Towns that are on
the map (add +1 to the difficulty for each).
As the Heroes travel the land attempting to Seal or
Destroy Mines, the Darkness itself is working its way across
the region, constantly seeking to tear our world asunder and
spew more abominations forth from the Void.
Players may use either the Depth Track included with
the game for Overland Darkness or may use the Overland
Darkness Track included on the Mine Blast Campaign Log.
The Darkness Marker starts on the Darkness Start space on
the far right of the track. The Darkness Marker moves one
space to the left every time a Town is Destroyed or a Mine
becomes Overrun.
At certain points along the track, the Darkness Marker
will land on blood spatters or Growing Dread spaces. These
indicate new global effects that will permanently affect every
Mission and Fight that the Heroes engage in for the rest of
the campaign. When the Darkness Marker lands on a blood
spatter space, draw the next Darkness card in the deck with
the keyword ‘Boost’, that card’s effect is now permanent!
When it lands on Growing Dread spaces, draw a Growing
Dread card, this card will be added to the Stack at the start of
every Mission.
The Hero Marker begins on the other end of the
Overland Darkness Track on the far left and shows the progress
of the Heroes as they Seal and Destroy Mines. For each Mine
that the Heroes Seal or Destroy, move the Hero Marker to the
right one space. Note that if a Sealed Mine becomes Active
again, the Hero Marker moves back to the left one space.
When the Hero Marker reaches the Darkness Start space, it is
time to face the final challenge in the Ruins of Brimstone!
Overland Darkness Event
Whenever the Heroes have a Wilderness Encounter on
the Overland map, they should also make a special Overland
Hold Back the Darkness roll as well, the difficulty of which
is determined by the position of the Hero Marker on the
Overland Darkness Track and modified by the number of
Overrun Mines or Destroyed Towns (add +1 to the difficulty
of this roll for each). Over time, as the Heroes progress
through the campaign, this roll will become more and more
difficult. If the Heroes succeed on this Overland Hold Back the
Darkness roll, then they are fine, nothing happens. However,
if they fail this roll, then they need to make one more roll
on the Mine Chart. The Status of the Mine that is rolled will
determine what happens next:
Status of Mine
Active Mine		
Sealed Mine		
Destroyed Mine
Overrun Mine
Overland Darkness Event Result
becomes an Overrun Mine
becomes an Active Mine
nothing happens
Destroy nearest Town
Ritual of Sealing			
(5 MP)
Expend one Occult Scroll and make a Casting
Roll to determine if a Mine entrance on the
same hex as the Posse has become Sealed.
Ritual of Sealing
To Seal a Mine using an Occult
Scroll, the Heroes must perform a Ritual
Scroll
of Sealing. This Ritual can either be
performed on the Overland Map as a 5
MP cost action or down in the Mines at
the successful completion of a Mission. To perform a Ritual of
Sealing, the Posse must make a Casting Roll by rolling 2D6.
The Casting Number for this Ritual is equal to the number of
Sealed Mines + Overrun Mines + Destroyed Towns. As time
goes on in the Mine Blast campaign, you’ll find that it will
become harder and harder to perform Rituals of Sealing and
instead you’ll have to resort to Destroying Mines.
Destroying a Mine
To permanently Destroy a Mine
using heavy explosives, the Heroes
must first purchase an Explosives Side
Explosives
Bag Token from a Frontier Outpost
Town Location (see HexCrawl
Items). Explosives Tokens each count
as five (5) Side Bag Tokens towards your limit and can only
be carried by a single Hero, meaning that in most cases at
least one Hero will have to go without using Side Bag Tokens
if you want to blow up a Mine.
One Explosives Token may be used to Destroy an Active
Mine and upon successful completion of an Adventure in
that Mine, that Mine becomes Destroyed and the Explosives
Token is discarded. The Explosives Token is used up
automatically.
A Mine will also be Destroyed upon successful
completion of a Blow the Mine Mission [Basic:6].
46Final Challenge
If the Hero marker has made it to the end of the
Overland Darkness Track (or as far as it will go if all other
Mines are Overrun) and all Mines on the map have been
Sealed, Destroyed, or Overrun, the Heroes must now descend
into the depths of the Ruins of Brimstone to put an end to
this last threat once and for all! The Posse will need to travel
to the Ruins of Brimstone (Mine #20), enter that Mine and
go on their final Mission: Confrontation! [HexCrawl:6].
Good luck, you’ll need it.
CAMPAIGN OPTIONS
These are a smattering of options you might consider
playing that aren’t directly tied to any one campaign style and
could be used with most of them, though you may find some
harder than others.
The Maleficent Seven
The Posse starts off with seven Heroes and any KO’d
Heroes are permanently dead if the rest of the Heroes flee or
are KO’d. Play until you’re all dead victorious.
Town Corruption
Whenever Dark Stone or items with a Dark Stone icon are
sold in a Town (does not matter how many are sold), roll a D6
for Town Corruption. For each 1 or 2 rolled, that Town gains
1 point of Corruption. Each point of Corruption that a Town
has adds a -1 modifier to all Town Event rolls in that Town.
Guilt by Association
All members of a Posse must be comprised of Heroes who
all share at least one keyword with each other.
The Year of Fire & Ash
Track every day of travel and adventure. At the end of one
year (365 days), the campaign is over.
Game Master (GM)
One player forgoes controlling a Hero and takes on
the role of Game Master (GM). The GM takes over some
responsibilities and has some discretionary decisions to make.
This can remove some of the randomness from the game, but
means one player might give up advancing a Hero. It’s highly
encouraged that you make this a rotating role that switches
between players each play session to make sure everyone gets
an equal opportunity to play both roles.
• Hold Back the Darkness rolls/Updates Depth Track
At the start of a new turn, the GM makes all Hold Back
the Darkness rolls (adding in any Hero modifiers) and
updates the Depth Track when necessary.
47
• Draws/Plays Map cards/Map Tiles/Exploration Tokens
The GM is responsible for drawing map cards and laying
out upcoming map tiles, unrevealed Exploration Tokens,
and decides where Doors/Gates should be placed on the
map. The GM should also take the Heroes Line of Sight
into consideration and can lay upcoming Map Tiles down
if they would be seen by the player, though the limit
that any Heroes should be able to see is two Map Tiles
away. The GM may look ahead at unrevealed Exploration
Tokens to keep track of Door/Gate Icons and may lay
Map tiles down in any orientation they want to.
• Draws/Rolls Threats
The GM is in charge of drawing Threat cards or rolling
on Threat tables. Whenever the GM draws Threat cards
or rolls on Threat tables, they may do so three times and
choose the result that they want.
• Places/Moves/Activates/Targets/Attacks with Enemies
The GM controls all Enemy placement, movement,
targeting, special abilities, and attacking. Enemies may be
placed however the GM wants, with the only restriction
being that Enemies may not be placed any closer than
they would if they were using the normal grid placement
rules, but they may be placed as far away as the Heroes
can see (including on map tiles that are further out).
The GM is not bound by normal Enemy AI movement
requirements and can move however they want to,
including into unexplored map tiles, though they are
bound by the targeting rules and can not target a Hero
with more Enemies if there are other Heroes who have
less Enemies targeting them. Any special abilities that
require die rolls, still require the GM to roll dice.
• Draws/Keeps Darkness & Growing Dread cards
The GM draws and reads aloud Darkness cards when
called to and draws/maintains the Growing Dread stack
as necessary. The GM may look through, but not reveal,
the stack at any time.
• Gets 3 Grit Tokens per Game Session
Each Game Session, the GM gains 3 Grit Tokens the
same as the players. In the same way that the Heroes may
reroll any amount of dice with each Grit, the GM can
also decide to reroll any dice that they are in charge of
rolling. The GM can also decide to use a Grit to redraw
any cards that they are in charge of drawing.
• Gains Bonuses whenever a Hero is KO’d
Whenever the GM is able to KO a Hero, the GM gains
a hidden Darkness card that they may play at any time.
They may have as many Darkness cards in their hand as
they want, but may only play one Darkness card per turn.
In addition, if the GM player has a Hero that is sitting
out the game while the player takes on the role of GM,
that player’s Hero gains 75 XP whenever another Hero in
the Posse is KO’d. This XP bonus is only gained once for
each other Hero in the Posse.Short Story Campaign
requires:
City of the Ancients
Form and Void
NOTE: Other than the initial section ‘Campaign Set Up’,
the following sections are NOT meant to be read in order. Each
entry will direct you to the next entry that needs to be read to
progress with the Campaign. Even failing a Mission will progress
the storyline. Reading these in the listed order will spoil some story
elements.
Campaign Set Up
[Note: The Form and Void Short Story Campaign
requires the City of the Ancients Core Set]
Roll a D20 on the Town Chart. This is the Posse’s
Starting Town. The Posse starts out with no Gold, Dark
Stone, or much else to their name. Each Hero starts with a
single Side Bag Token and their Starting Gear. Begin your
first Story Mission For A Few Dark Stone More [Basic:1]. For
each Mission, read the ‘Reward’ section only at the end of the
Mission if the Posse is successful and only read the ‘Failure’
section if the Mission is failed. These ‘End of Mission’
sections will also direct you to the next Story Mission and
what if any requirements there are to progress to the next
Story Mission.
For A Few Dark Stone More [Basic:1]
Brimstone used to be the center of it all, the ‘Paris of the West’
is what some folks called it, others called it ‘New Gomorrah’, what
with all the fun people was havin’. Dark Stone minin’ was the biggest
game in town and it was making hand over fist. It got to be that even
the common farmer had enough to retire if he were to find just a few
patches of those rocks on his land.
That was before the Darkness came, before Brimstone blew all
to damn hell. Inhuman monsters burst forth from tears in the fabric
of reality is what some of the more learned folks are sayin’, others are
sayin’ it’s divine retribution for the sins of man. Whatever it was, they
all sorta just jumped outta these glowing “gates” and started tearing
the place apart. Once them things was done with Brimstone, they
fanned out across the land. They seemed to be drawn to anywhere
those rocks were found, doin’ God knows what to whoever they found
in the mines. People are still payin’ top dollar for them dark stone, but
it’s not quite as safe a bet as it once was.
Sittin’ in a saloon one afternoon, you overhear talk of a local
mine up in the hills that has a large deposit of Dark Stone, just waitin’
for someone to come and claim it. It sounds too good to be true…
and it probably is, but the old prospector swears up and down that he
would go claim it himself if he were twenty years younger.
It’s not hard to figure out which mine he’s talkin’ about based on
the landmarks he mentions, and though the other patrons he tells just
dismiss him, this could be the big score you’ve been lookin’ for. You
buy a drink for that old prospector and get him to tell you everything
he knows about the place.
He ain’t been there in some time and don’t remember the layout
too well, but he does remember seein’ a couple of patches of Dark
Stone in the place and somethin’ mighty evil about it all Back in those
days they was lookin’ for Gold and didn’t care much about that black
rock. He’d a been living like a king now if he’d taken some of that
damn rock with him he tells you, still, what he wouldn’t give to have
his wife and kids back. He doesn’t say much more, just sorta starts
sulkin’ and stares off into nothing, just mumblin’ to himself...
Set Up
Choose the closest Mine on the HexCrawl Overland
map to the Starting Town (other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone).
This will be the location of your first Mission. Otherwise, Set
Up, Mission Goal, and Objectives for this Mission are all the
same per the normal directions listed in the Adventure Book
For A Few Dark Stone More [Basic:1]. Choose either Small,
Medium, or Large Deposits for the Mission Length.
48End of Mission
Reward:
As you load up on your hard-earned haul, you look back on the
smoldering remains of them critters you just dispatched. Them
things can be killed, you’ve seen ‘em bleed and you’ve seen ‘em die.
Might be whatever gates these things came from leads somewhere
else. Might be someday you’ll follow them back through and beat
the piss out of whoever sent these things through. But that’s for
another day. Right now you’ve got reservations with a saloon chair
and a bottle of whiskey with your name on it. You might even buy
that old prospector a drink or two if you see him again.
Still though, you can’t help but wonder about this dark stone. Is
it as bad as them Preachers been sayin’ it is? Why’re people still
buyin’ this crap anyways, after what it done to Brimstone you’d
think people wouldn’t be havin’ nothin’ to with the stuff. Someone
out there is grabbin’ up the stuff left and right, but for what?
To receive your Rewards for this Mission, you must
travel back to the Starting Town where you first picked
up this Mission at. In addition to the normal Rewards
for completing this Mission (Small: 25XP and D3 Dark
Stone; Medium: 50XP and D3+1 Dark Stone; Large: 75XP
and D3+2 Dark Stone), your next Story Mission will be
Exploration [Basic:2]. Before that Story Mission though,
you must complete one Job. Afterwards, to get that Story
Mission you’ll need to travel to a Random Town.
Failure:
Well shit, that couldn’t have gone much worse. That damn old
man didn’t say nuthin’ bout all them critters bein’ there. Chances
are though, whatever the hell you set free from the mine has
killed him and a bunch of other people anyways, so no sense in
gettin’ too worked up about it. Unfortunately for you though,
you’re still trapped down here in this damn mine and can’t do
nothing to try ‘n help.
Ignore the normal Failure results for this Mission.
Instead, you must immediately begin an Escape Mission
[Basic:5] before you are able to exit this Mine. Also, the
nearest D3 Towns to this Mine are all Destroyed. The
next nearest 3 Towns each have 1 Random Location
Destroyed by the escaping Darkness that you freed
from this Mine. After that, your next Story Mission will
be Search Party [Basic:4]. Before you begin that Story
Mission though, you must complete one Job. Afterwards,
to get that Story Mission you’ll need to travel to a
Random Town on the Overland map.
49
City of the Ancients [Targa:4]
You’ve been hearing rumors and finding information about the
ancient, frozen city of Targa and now it’s time you headed out there for
yourself to see what’s been spawning these horrible nightmares that’ve
you’ve seen. They’re even sayin’ that Wilfred F. Peabody, the famous rail
baron, is willing to give people a little reward if they can poke around
the place and find whatever treasures might lie hidden within... and
find out about what kinda threat they pose too, that’s kind of important
you guess. Folks are also talkin’ about some cult, the Disciples of the
Void, they’ve been searching for this City themselves for some reason.
In all your travelin’ around, you’ve heard rumor of a Mine where cold
blizzards seem to emanate both night and day and there’s some sort of
portal there to another world that people’ve disappeared through, but
none come back. Seems as likely a place to get to Targa as any other,
so you all gear up and prepare to head on out, looking for adventure
and glory... or something resembling it.
Set Up
Choose a Random Mine on the HexCrawl Overland map
(other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone). This will be the Mine you
will be traveling to for this Mission. Otherwise, Set Up, Mission
Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives for this Mission are all the same
per the normal City of the Ancients [Targa:4] directions listed in the
Adventure Book. Read below for the Reward and Failure results.End of Mission
“You see, Targa, isn’t so much a city, as it is a giant... prison of
sorts. Even now Dr. Hedgebrook here is removing the last of the
locks, freeing... an ancient entity from mystical chains that held
it before the Earth was even formed! You’ll meet the Him soon
enough... if you manage to not get killed during the Overloading
process. It really is a shame though, as you’ve been most useful
up til this point. Au Revoir!” With that, the image of Peabody
shimmers and disappears. The sound of explosions off in the
distance seem to confirm what he’s told you. And they seem to
be getting closer to your part of the City.
Reward:
You put a good-sized hole in the last of those bastards and
watch as it collapses into a pile of giblets. Sumbitch that was
a helluva fight. All around you stands the fabled “City of
the Ancients”, an alien city supposedly older than the Earth
itself, and you mean to start tearing into it and grabbin’ what
you can of value! As your start rootin’ around and tearing
vaguely gold-like things out of the walls, you see a solid globe
of glass or diamond or something protruding from the floor.
The markings on it’s base show the skulls of terrible, horrible
things which would drive a man insane were he to see them in
real life, but screw that, that globe is prolly worth a bunch of
money. As you grasp the bottom of the thing and try to pull it
out of the wall, you realize with some trepidation that that may
have not been the smartest of things to do.
You don’t know much about techno-logical thing-a-majigs, but
whatever Peabody was talking about you hope to hell you can
reverse or stop. At the very least you need to be looking for a
way out of this place. If Peabody and Hedgebrook came here,
they must have another way out. You quickly start looking for
signs of their trail in the snow, anxious to catch up with them if
you can. Either that, or look for somethin’ that looks important
that might be able to stop at least this part of the place from
blowin’ up. They was advanced here, but even they seem to
have used steam and boiler rooms for gettin’ things done,
maybe there’s something like that around here that can stop
this mess, that or a gate. Whatever keeps you alive.
Suddenly alarms start going off all around you and a scratchy
alien voice starts repeating some alien phrase that might be
Oriental or somethin’. This definitely don’t seem good and
seems like as good a time as any to head on out. You pack
up your things and start making your way back to the gate
where you entered this place. To your horror though, with red
lights flashing and klaxons blaring, you find the gate is in ruins,
blown up some how. You can’t travel back through it now.
In addition to the normal Rewards for completing this
Mission (25XP and trinkets worth D6x$50), you must
immediately begin your next Story Mission Overload
[Targa: 5]. Do not go back to the Overland map, proceed
directly to the next Mission. The Heroes may get one
additional Catch Your Breath roll (in addition the normal
roll the Posse gets at the end of your last Fight).
A few seconds later, a nearby glass screen on the wall hums to
life, revealing what looks like a photo-graph of a figure, and
the dang thing moves too, it’s like magik! You see the image of
someone’s backside and as they turn to face you, you recognize
them. It’s none other than Wilfred F. Peabody himself, and he
has a damn smirk on his face.
Failure:
There’s just too many, you can’t handle this! There’s more and
more of them things streamin’ from every dark corner and crevice
of this damned frozen city. It’s almost like these things knew you
was comin’, cause they was prepared and they hit hard. They beat
you back at every turn and your pretty durned busted up.
“So you’ve made it through Targa alive? Impressive. I had
hoped the creatures here would’ve killed you by now, but it’s
almost better this way as I get to see the betrayed looks on
your pitiful faces when you realize that the gate you took into
Targa is now gone. And while you were distracting all those
defenses, Dr. Hedgebrook and I followed you into the City
and we’re now close to completing the last little bit for the
“Awakening”. You were essential to all this and we couldn’t
have done it without your help. Unfortunately for you, when
HE has been awakened, it will remove some safeguards, which
will likely destroy a substantial portion of Targa... along with
you too... Oh! Spoilers! I’m sorry!”
So you just run. You run as fast and as hard as you can to
get the hell out of this godforsaken city, leave it to the cold
and the monsters. Screw Peabody and screw Hedgebrook,
if they wanna know so much about this city they can come
here themselves and have a gander at it, you’re through.
Occasionally some unseen thing hits you and the back and it
burns like nothin’ you’ve ever felt before, but somehow you
make it back to that sweet, sweet portal that’ll take you back to
Earth, back to home.
“It’s astounding what we’ve learned from all the things
adventurers like yourself have been bringing us. It’s all starting
to come together now and I think my Associates will be most
pleased with this last piece of the puzzle. At long last, the
Disciples of the Void shall reign over this pathetic planet, the
highest servants of the rightful lord of this plane, He Who
Shall Not Be Named!
Ignore the normal Failure results for this Mission. Each Hero
takes D6 Wounds that carry over into the next Mission. You
must immediately begin the Mission Last Stand [Targa:3]
before you are able to exit this Mine. Do not go back to the
Overland map until you complete that next Mission.
50Escape [Basic:5]
Well shoot. That didn’t exactly go according to plan. Wherever the
hell it is you’ve found yourself, you need to get yourself back out, and
quick. You’re deep in some damn tunnel where things are alot darker
and deadlier than you’re comfortable with, not that you’re scared of the
dark or anything like that.
Set Up
The Posse begins this Mission immediately on the Mine
Entrance Map Tile. The Set Up, Mission Goal, Special Rules, and
Objectives for this Mission are all the same per the normal Escape
Mission [Basic:5] directions listed in the Adventure Book. Read
below for the Reward and Failure results.
End of Mission
Reward:
Sweet beautiful sunshine, it’s about damn time. You walk out
in to the sunlight and you swear that bright blue sky has never
looked sweeter to your eyes.
In addition to the normal Rewards for completing this
Mission (100XP), you can now exit this Mine back to the
Overland map. Unless otherwise stated, you exit the same
Mine that you originally entered into.
51
Failure:
Awww crap! That did it. That last little bit really pushed you
past the edge. You grab a part of your body that ain’t been
in this much pain in your life and hope to hell you’ll be able
to make it back to town in one piece. Least though you got
yourself out of that mine somehow and you can see the sun
shinin’. It’s a bit dimmer now with that Darkness escaping
and all, but at least you see it.
Follow the normal Failure results for this Mission. Each
Hero must discard one Gear or Artifact card with a listed
Gold value of at least $200. Any Hero that can’t discard
a Gear or Artifact like that must instead roll D8 on the
Injury Chart (or D3x10+D3 if using the Expanded Injury
Chart). You can now also exit this Mine back to the Overland
map. Unless otherwise stated, you exit the same Mine that
you originally entered into.But do keep an eye out for anything else you might find out there while
you’re about. We’ve plenty of funds to spare for any other discoveries
you might have while you’re out there. Bring anything else you might
find to Dr. Hedgebrook here and he’ll pass along a reward for you.
This should be a perfectly simple affair though, I suspect you won’t find
much in that old mine, but you never know.”
And with that, Peabody and Hedgebrook are gone. You’ve got
yourself a contract, time to get to it!
Set Up
Choose a Random Mine on the HexCrawl Overland map
(other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone). This will be the Mine you
will be traveling to for this Mission. Otherwise, Set Up, Mission
Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives for this Mission are all the
same per the normal Exploration [Basic:2] directions listed in the
Adventure Book. Read below for the Reward and Failure results.
End of Mission
Reward:
Exploration [Basic:2]
You look over your scrawlings, your rough map of the mine and
realize that you’ve explored the last room. ‘Bout damn time too, you
was gettin’ sick of this place. Doesn’t look like there’s as much dark
stone here as what Peabody thought there’d be, but that ain’t really
your problem. He’s just payin’ you to look around and by your
reckoning, that’s what you’ve done.
As you flip a coin in the air to decide what to do next, a stranger
reaches out and catches your coin, apparently makin’ the decision for you
it would seem. He tosses the coin back to you and introduces himself.
“Wilfred F. Peabody”, sounds like somebody important, mostly cause
he says his full name like it’s a title or something. His companion, a
crazy-looking, wild-eyed fellow who doesn’t say much, is known simply
as “Dr. Hedgebrook”. Hedgebrook is apparently some kind of smartie
pants, but he just looks like a loon to you. Peabody is what they call a rail
baron and owns most of the rail lines in the area. He’s lookin’ to expand
his investments to include more dark stone mining along with all them
valuable artifacts people is comin’ back with. He’s heard things from some
folks and figures you’re the only ones crazy enough *ahem* dangerous
enough to go into one of those old mines by choice.
You’re turning to amscray out of there when the glint of something
catches your eye towards the back of this room. You thought it was a
wall at first, what with all the dust and debris covering it, but you catch
something shiny reflecting your lantern light. You get a little bit closer
and start to wipe away the dirt. You feel a cold burn shoot up your
arm! A closer look at the bit you’ve wiped away reveals that it looks to
be… ice?! It’s cold underground, but you didn’t think it was that cold!
Taking care to use some protection on your hands, you wipe the rest
of the dirt that you can away and jump back at what you’ve found
here. It’s some kind of horrible lookin’ thing, fully encased in a block
of ice! You ain’t never seen anything like it, it’s like some kind of damn
giant roach or bug or somethin’. There’s somethin’ no good about the
sumbitch you just can’t quite put your finger on. Not only that, but you
realize that there seems to be quite a few of these things all clustered
together, it’s like a whole family of the critters. Behind them on the
walls of the mine you see some kind of weird art and writin’ you can’t
quite recognize, as if from some long dead civilization, the horrors of
which man was never meant to know… or somethin’.
Peabody recently purchased the land rights to a mine with
suspected dark stone deposits and needs someone to go in and do some
explorin’ for him, maybe find out if the place is safe enough to start
diggin’ out that dark stone again. You know the mine he’s talking about
and while you wouldn’t say you’re eager to go there, the money from
your last job isn’t lasting quite as long as what you thought it would.
Besides, you came out OK the last time around, what could be so bad
about this one? You just need to get in there, poke around a little bit
and then get out. It’s gonna be a cake-walk.
You tell him you’ll do it, he just better have your money ready for
you when you get back in. He seems real happy with the answer you
gave him, adding that his Associates will be most pleased if they’re able
to get their hands on even more dark stone. You ask him why these
Associates are so hot to trot over this dark stone.
“My Associates are simply collectors looking to build up their
supplies. You never can tell when the whole market will just… blow up.
52
It’s against your better judgment, but you think you might be able
to drag these things out and bring them back with you. It might
make up for not finding them dark stone deposits like Peabody
was looking for and hopefully he’ll throw in a bit of a bonus for
these things, whatever they are. You should probably drop them
off with that Hedgebrook fellow and maybe he’ll throw in a little
something extra with your reward.Before you can collect your Reward, you’ll need to
travel back to the Originating Town where you got
this Mission from. Until you get back to that Town,
reduce your Overland Move Points to 3 per day as your
extra cargo is weighing you down. In addition to the
normal Rewards for completing this Mission (25XP and
$50 x number of steps on the Depth Track the Hero
marker is from Mine Entrance space), your next Story
Mission will be Frozen Expedition [Targa:6]. Before that
Story Mission though, you must complete two Jobs.
Afterwards, to get that Story Mission you’ll need to travel
to a Random Town.
Failure:
Hot darn it, that smarts! Peabody didn’t say anything about
seeing things like that down here! And just what in the hell was
that thing that you saw? Now you’ve fallen down a shaft into
a deeper part of the mine and last you saw that hell beast was
makin’ its way towards the exit. If that thing gets out, there’s
no telling what that thing will do if it makes its way back to
a Town. You suspect there’s the blood of more than a few
innocents on your hands for failing to stop that thing. Some
Hero you’ve been. Now you’re trapped down here without a
map and you need to find yourselves a way out of this mess
and see what you can do to write your wrong.
Ignore the normal Failure results for this Mission. You
must immediately begin an Escape Mission [Basic:5]
before you are able to exit this Mine. After you eventually
get out of the Mine, while traveling, instead of rolling
each day, you will automatically have a Wilderness
Encounter every day you travel on the Overland map
until you get back into a Town. Also, the nearest Town
is Destroyed and the 5 nearest Towns from there will
each have 1 Random Location Destroyed. Your next
Story Mission will be Terror in the Night [Targa:1].
Before that Story Mission though, you must complete
two Jobs. Afterwards, to get that Story Mission you’ll
need to travel to a Random Town.
Wilfred F. Peabody
Rail Baron of the
Atlantica-Pacifco Rail
Line, Peabody made his
fortune on the blood,
sweat, and tears of folks
laying tracks and building
bridges all across the
Southwest. When
Brimstone blew, others
lost their shirts and
moved out of the area.
Peabody doubled-down
and started hiring
mutant labor to rebuild
the lines.
Frozen Expedition [Targa:6]
You’da thought this pale fellah had escaped from the looney bin
what with his disheveled hair and wild look in his eyes, but he declares
that he’s some kind of doctor or scientist that works for Wilfred F.
Peabody. You’re still not convinced that he’s not crazy, but you listen
to him just the same because he gives money for work. This Dr.
Hedgebrook, as he calls himself, is looking over the icy things you
brought back from your last adventure. The ice around them seems to
have gotten a bit smaller since when you pulled them out of that mine.
A little bit after you arrived in town with them things the doctor
dispatched an Expedition of some of his underlings to look into finding
more clues about these frozen critters. After they left though, he noticed
these ice things was startin’ to thaw out, which, given the monstrous
appearance of their occupants, couldn’t possibly bode well for the locals.
That’s where you all come in. The Doc hasn’t heard from that
Expedition in awhile and needs you to go look into it and see if you can
find out what they’ve been up to. He thinks some Journal Pages they
have might be helpful in figuring out what these things are and how to
contain them if this ice melts any more, which it’s lookin’ to do.
53
Just then, someone runs in all bloody-like and on the brink of
death, with only enough strength to say a few things before keelin’ over.
Seems like the rest of the Expedition has been slaughtered like pigs
by some terrible things that came from some portal to an ancient and
terrible frozen city, one of them gates people been talking about. There’s
no one left alive with the Expedition now.Hedgebrook is mighty desperate now. There’s no tellin’ what
these things will do when they’ve thawed out all the way, but the Doc
doesn’t want to leave because of all the science he can get from it. He
needs those Journal Pages to figure out what can be done with these ice
critters and needs someone to go recover them. He’s beggin’ you to help
him out since you’re the only one nearby that’s dealt so much with these
creatures from the gates.
<Clap>… <Clap>… <Clap>... “Well done Heroes! You’ve saved the
Town from these dastardly monsters. We should hold a festival in
your honor!” You turn to see Wilfred F. Peabody leaning against
a building with a group of ugly-lookin’ thugs gathered about him.
Peabody walks over towards the Doc and some of his thugs start
gathering up the husks of the Frozen Things.
“Now Dr. Hedgebrook, that was excellent work you’ve done here,
this Liquid you’ve brewed up here might be just the thing we’ve
been needing for that *other* thing you’ve been working on.”
Peabody gives him a knowing glance and the Doc’s eyes light
up as if in realization. “Yes, of course! The application for that is
perfect! I just need to make a few adjustments to the formula to
align with the invocati-” Peabody puts a finger to his lips and
motions for another thug to escort Dr. Hedgebrook away. He
turns to face you.
You’re not one to do volunteer work, but the Doc is kind
enough to offer you all a reward for your hard work, so you’re
inclined to be a good Samaritan.
Set Up
The Town you’re in is now the Originating Town for this
Mission. Choose a Random Mine to travel to for this Mission
(other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone). After you’ve collected the
Journal Pages, you’ll need to return back to this Town to finish
the Mission. Otherwise, Set Up, Mission Goal, Special Rules, and
Objectives for this Mission are all the same per the normal Frozen
Expedition [Targa:6] directions listed in the Adventure Book. Read
below for the Reward and Failure results.
You make it back with the Journal Pages and deliver them to
Hedgebrook. Just in time too, ‘cause it seems in your absence
some of them things thawed out all the way and started running
amok in Town. Guns ‘n bullets don’t do much against them and
now the Sheriff and some deputies are all dead too.“Good Sirs, we can’t let this victory go to our heads though.
According to Dr. Hedgebrook’s research and some other
information we were able to recover from the Expedition, these
things came from the ancient frozen city of Targa, perhaps you’ve
seen it in your travels? They’re servants of some other entity out there
and we need to know why these things were found down in that
mine and what their intentions are for us. This thing is bigger than
you or possibly even me. If I give you some more money, minus
the expense of anything that was destroyed here of course, can you
be some dears and make a trip out to Targa for me?” He jingles
a bag of coins in front of you, which seems to cloud your better
judgment… yet again. You agree to looking into this Targa place for
Peabody when you get the time.
Hedgebrook sifts through the Journal Pages and finds some
complicated formulas. He seems to have forgotten all about you and
loses himself in the pages. “Egads! That was it the whole time!, it was
practically staring at us the whole time! They’ve completed the theorem,
this is magnificent! Yes... yes... yeeeesss.... mmmm.... mmhhmmm....
... ahaa.... rather ingenious! These things are just the servants of
<unintelligible mutter>... Mmm... so they aren’t the keepers, but they know
the way.... and this recipe for the Void Ichor could be used.... hmmmm....
carry the three and divide by zero here... Yes! Yes! Yes! I’ve got it!”Strange though that Peabody knew about Hedgebrook’s research
and some of what he just discovered. There weren’t no time for him
to read those Journal Pages and it’s almost like him n’ Hedgebrook
have something else going on... Your stomach rumbles though and
you leave to go get some food in you. All this fightin’ and thinkin’
is making you hungry. Even with this extra money that Peabody
is giving you, you’ll need to look for some work to buy supplies.
If you’re going to Targa, you’ll need to get yourself prepared for
whatever the hell you’re gonna meet up with.
He suddenly turns to his workbench and starts fiddling with some
nasty-looking chemicals and after some time mixes up a batch of
a Green, Glowy Liquid. He rushes past you outside to where the
Frozen Things are gnawing on a building. They don’t seem to take
much notice of the Doc and are focused on devouring the bits of
wood and metal that make up the building. Hedgebrook pours
a little bit of the Liquid on each creature. To your surprise, where
bullets didn’t do nothin’ to ‘em, that stuff starts to crackle and burn,
almost melting the things from the inside out and they all keel over
and die. Hedgebrook seems almost heartbroken though.In addition to the normal Rewards for completing this
Mission (50XP, plus an extra $250 if no buildings were
destroyed), your next Story Mission will be City of the
Ancients [Targa: 4]. Before that Story Mission though, you
must complete three Jobs. Afterwards, to get that Story
Mission you’ll need to travel to a Random Town.
End of Mission
Reward:
“Well that wasn’t supposed to happen! This was supposed to be a
binding agent... mmmm... where was I wrong in my calculations?” He
seems lost in thought.
54Failure:
As you leave the Mine, broken and bruised, you catch sight of
an equally disheveled Dr. Hedgebrook. Without those Journal
Pages, he couldn’t come up with nothin’ and those Frozen
Things decimated the town and moved on to other pastures,
leaving a huge swathe of destruction all over the area. He
blames you for all the destruction and lays into you for a bit,
but his temper is cooled by more pressing matters. Peabody!
After those things was done with the town, Peabody came with
some fellows dressed in robes and seemed to be able to call
to them or control them somehow. He directed those Frozen
Things to where the other towns were and then left with the
robed fellows. There’s no tellin’ where he’s got himself to, you’ll
need to do some investigations of your own to figure out where
he’s gotten himself to or what they’re up to...
Ignore the normal Failure results for this Mission. The
Originating Town is Destroyed and the 3 nearest
Towns from there will each have D3 Random Locations
Destroyed before the damage from those Other World
creatures can be contained. Your next Story Mission will be
Stop the Ritual [Targa:2]. Before that Story Mission though,
you must complete three Jobs. Afterwards, to get that Story
Mission you’ll need to travel to a Random Town.
Last Stand [Targa:3]
You don’t know how it happened. Whatever that bastard Peabody
has gotten you mixed up in has lead you here. Things were a bit of a
blur after that last bit and all you know is that you’re somewhere deep
down in the Mines. But you’re not alone... There’s some more of them
things you can hear off in the distance, getting closer. You’ve got a little
bit of time to prepare some kinda defense, but you don’t know if you
can hold them off. This is the most desperate you ever been in your
whole life. If you make it outta this whole thing alive, Peabody’s got a
bullet with his name on it, and you’re aimin’ to make that delivery, or
die tryin’!
Set Up
The Posse begins this Mission with their Heroes anywhere on
the board. The Set Up, Mission Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives
for this Mission are all the same per the normal Last Stand Mission
[Targa:3] directions listed in the Adventure Book. Read below for
the Reward and Failure results.
Dr. Hedgebrook
Rumor has it that Hedgebrook was chased away from his
practice out East after the locals there caught wind of some
of his “unnatural” experimentations. He came to Brimstone
looking to start afresh, where the weirdness of Brimstone could
mask any of his bizarre studies and provide ample subjects to
experiment on.
55End of Mission
Reward:Failure:
You eventually make your way back to the Mine entrance and
are blinded by the Sun as soon as you get out. It seems like
it’s been an eternity since you last saw any sunlight, but the
breeze and the fresh air feels good. You wonder how much
longer that’ll be around for anybody if you don’t stop these
supernatural menaces. Whatever Peabody is up to, he’s aimin’
to bring, or maybe he already has, somethin’ particularly
hostile and unnatural to this world and you don’t think there’ll
be too many sunny days and cool breezes around after that
happens. You took a whoopin’ the last time and yer afraid of
what might happen if you try a direct assault on him. He’s
messin’ with powers beyond human understanding and you
don’t know what chance mortals will have against him and
whatever he’s plannin’ on summoning out here.You eventually make your way back to the Mine entrance and
are a little bit saddened to see it’s night time as you was hopin’
for some sun light to brighten your mood. What’s more, the
stench of death and decay is strong around here. You don’t
immediately see nothin’, but it’s strong around here.
It’s happened again. You thought you were in a good defensive
position, but them things just kept on comin’ and you wasn’t
strong enough to hold them back. You wonder to yourself,
maybe you’re not up to the task? You’ve failed ‘bout as much
as anything, maybe you’re just not cut out for this world-savin’
business after all? Can any man or woman hold out against
them things really?
Bodies, bodies, bodies all around you. You didn’t know you
could get so used to the sight of all that blood, bile, and
organs, but if them doctors can do it, why shouldn’t you? As
you kick over a few of the corpses you find various nick nacks
and oddities in the bellies of these creatures and take them
for your own, these fellers certainly won’t be needing them
anymore.
The more you think about it, you’re not entirely sure what you
could do to Peabody even if you caught up with him anyways.
You figure if anybody else would have any idea about what’s
goin’ on it’d be that other fellah that’s supposed to always be
with him, Dr. Hedgebrook. If you are where you think you
are, you know he’s got a laboratory that a ways off from here
and you can probably get some answers from him if he’s there
or at least look around and see if you can find something.
Smart folks like that are always writin’ stuff down. Hell, he’s
probably got so many things goin’ on in there, you might also
be able to pick up something extra that’ll help you pull one
over on the bastard Peabody.
What’s more, you’re not entirely sure what you could do to
him anyways. You figure if anybody else would have any idea
about what’s goin’ on it’d be that other fellah that’s always
with him, Dr. Hedgebrook. If you are where you think you
are, you know he’s got a laboratory that ain’t too far from here
and you can probably get some answers from him or at least
look through his stuff. Smart folks like him are always stupid
and like to write stuff down. He got so many things goin’ on in
there, you might also be able to pick up something extra that’ll
help you pull one over on the bastard Peabody.
Another question comes to mind as you look around the Mine
entrance... what the hell happened to your horses?
As you begin to search the area, you find the source of that
deathly smell. It’s your horses. Them things that was attackin’ you
must’ve swept through here before you got here and they killed
them horses. Looks like it was just for sport though, as they don’t
seem to have eaten anything off them other than the heads.
In addition to the normal Rewards for completing this
Mission (5 Loot cards and D6x25XP to any Heroes not
KO’d at the end of the Mission), you can now exit this Mine
back to the Overland map. You exit the same Mine that you
originally entered into, this Mine shall be referred to as
the Objective Mine. After you enter the nearest Town,
you may immediately begin the next Story Mission Blow
the Mine.
Each Hero must roll once on both the Injury and
Madness Charts (regardless if they were KO’d or not).
You exit the same Mine that you originally entered into,
this Mine shall be referred to as the Objective Mine.
After you enter the next Town, you may immediately
begin the next Story Mission Blow the Mine. However, any
Mounts your Posse had are Dead, as you’ve been away for
too long and they’ve been slaughtered by something.
56Set Up
The Posse begins this Mission immediately on the Targa
Entrance Map Tile. The Set Up, Mission Goal, Special Rules, and
Objectives for this Mission are all the same per the normal Overload
Mission [Targa:5] directions listed in the Adventure Book. Read
below for the Reward and Failure results.
End of Mission
Reward:
With mere seconds to spare until oblivion, the alarm bells
fade out and the red lights that were shinin’ everywhere turn a
less threatening color. You’ve turned off some boilers here and
whatever process it was that Peabody and Hedgebrook started
up, you’ve managed to turn off at least here. Explosions still rip
through other distant parts of the City. You pause briefly to catch
your breath and scoop up a few trinkets that might be valuable
for somethin’ later on.
At this point you’re pretty well done with Targa and this
ancient shit-hole, but over the horizon, you see something that
don’t look too pleasant. You kept the part of the City you was
in from blowin’ up, but it looks like whatever Invocation that
Hedgebrook was performing has completed and the Prisoner
has awoken!
Overload [Targa:5]
That sunnuvabitch Peabody! He’s trapped you on Targa where
he thinks you’re gonna lay down and die just like that. He can go
to hell and you mean to take him there with you. Whatever he was
planning with this “Invocation” of his, he’ll have to cut it short, just as
soon as you’re able to get yourselves out of Targa. Seems Peabody
and Hedgebrook prepared a little surprise for you when you after you
landed in Targa and now the City is apparently counting down to
something that can’t possibly be good.
Peabody and Hedgebrook both followed after you and did
something using all the stuff you had found for them to wake a
‘prisoner’ of some kind here, but it’s lookin’ like it’s gonna blow you
up in the process. Sounds like Targa was actually some kind of giant
prison meant to hold the thing in here, and they’ve been organizing a
prison-break. Y’all need to either keep this old place from blowin’ you
up with it or escape through another portal back to Earth if you can
find it. You’ve followed some tracks in the snow that you’re pretty sure
was Peabody and thems’, but there’s no telling where they’ve gotten
themselves to now, the dang snow has covered up their tracks for good
now. You think there might be some kind of Boiler room or somethin’
that’ll stop this chain reaction from blowin’ the place sky high, but that’s
a long shot. Still, unless you can find another gate back home, you don’t
have much options.
57
It’s a terrible sight to behold, about the size of a mountain, a
lumbering leviathan of stone, flesh, and metal! What you assume
to be its head rises up into the clouds and a horribly misshapen
body steps awkwardly below it, as if waking from a great sleep.
It’s approaching directly towards you, destroying whole buildings
wherever it walks. You don’t know if it senses your presence or
just so happens to be coming in your direction, but you need to
amscray outta there!
You take off runnin’, you need to get the hell outta this city and
back to Earth before that thing gets you! Though your original
way in here was destroyed, you come across what looks to
be another gate that can take you back to Earth. As the giant
lumbering abomination is bearing down on you, you stumble
through to the other side of the gate. This gate is way too small
for somethin’ that big to pass on through and you hope beyond
hope that your ordeal is over.
However, it’s not. Whatever that thing was that you saw, you
can still see it through the gate. It’s almost like it... like it knows
the gate is there. It reaches down with one great tentacled
appendage, various tendrils writhing about. The tentacles burst
out of the gate and begin grabbing about for anything to hold
onto. You’re not sure what to make of it, when suddenly bursts
of bright blue energy begin coursing through the tendrils. It’s
almost like the things was.... feeding on the very rock around the
gate. Then the gate seems to expand ever so slightly. Another few
minutes later and the same thing happens again! Whatever that
thing is... it’s widening the gate and it means to come through!You bolt out of the mine as soon as you can knowin’ that
whatever that thing is, it’s too dang big for you to tackle
on your own. There might still be hope if you can get back
to Hedgebrook’s laboratory and find what you can there.
Hopefully you’ll catch Hedgebrook himself there, but at the
very least, you might just be able to pick up something else
that’ll help. Even some Explosives could help if you could
collapse the mine in on that damn thing before it comes
through to our world!
In addition to the normal Rewards for completing this
Mission (50XP and roll a D6. On a 3+, you may draw a
Targa Artifact), you can now exit this Mine back to the
Overland map. You exit to a different, Random Mine than
what you originally entered into and you may immediately
begin the next Story Mission Blow the Mine by going to the
nearest Town. Record the Mine that you exit from as the
Objective Mine.
Failure:
Explosions happen all around you and you see some of
the tallest towers within the ancient city begin to tumble.
Thousands of years worth of history, gone within an instant.
You wasn’t able to stop the chain reaction and you’re pretty
sure you’re a goner now.
As you race through the next room, looking for any kind of
protection you can find from the imminent doom you’re pretty
sure is on its way, you get about halfway through when all of
a sudden the floor underneath you begins to glow and crackle
with a bright, blue energy! You’re sure it’s some kinda trap or
some new deathly hazard that’ll finish off what the destruction
of the city won’t do. Indeed, bolts of energy shoot all around
and seem to travel through you and back to the floor again
and your feet are almost bolted in place, you’re paralyzed on
the spot. And yet, you feel no pain, it’s actually quite peaceful.
Then, in a flash, you’re gone from the doom that is befalling
the City of the Ancients and... surrounded by darkness?
Where in the hell have you gotten yourself to now? Wherever
it is its a bit quieter now that the place isn’t engulfed in flames
and such. The silence doesn’t last for long though, as you start
to hear the chittering sounds of things man was not meant to
know. There’s some other things down here with you, wherever
you are... and it sounds like they’re on their way!
In addition to the normal Failure results for this Mission
(each Hero rolls once on the Injury Chart), you must
immediately begin the next Story Mission Last Stand
[Targa:3] before you are able to exit back to the Overland
map. Do not go back to the Overland map until you
complete that next Mission.
Seal the Void Gate [Basic:3]
Well, you finally tracked that pair of pissants out here. Peabody
and Hedgebrook wasn’t too hard to follow as they left a trail of misery
and destruction every where they went. Before you got there though,
some preacher man by the name of Father Bartholomew, even tried
gettin’ together his followers to go down into the Mine where Peabody
escaped to, but it don’t seem like they did much. They was able to
wrestle some kind of Occult Book from Peabody’s grasp, but that got
lost somewhere down in the Mine.
Father Bartholomew meets you at the Mine entrance, bloodied
and weak from his ordeal. Seems Peabody is still in the midst of
finishing his summoning magik. He’s become some kind of unholy
supernatural monster, an avatar to an Ancient One that seeks to
bridge the gap between our world and its twisted Void dimension.
What’s more, the Void Gate had already been opened by the time
Bartholomew got there. Peabody, or whatever he’s become, is working
58some dark magik now to open it wide enough to bring that thing
through to our world. You reckon you only have a few hours to get
down there and close the Gate before it’s become big enough to let that
thing through. You recall somethin’ in that Occult Book that talked
about closin’ them Gates and sealin’ them off from our world for good.
If you can find where they lost that book, you might be able to use it to
close the Void Gate if you can get there in time.
Set Up
Start this Mission on the Mine Entrance Map Tile as normal.
The Set Up, Mission Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives for this
Mission are all the same per the normal Seal the Void Gate Mission
[Basic:3] directions listed in the Adventure Book. Read below for
the Reward and Failure results.
Failure:
You fail to close down the Void Gate and all around you the
Mine begins to shake and groan as if it were about to collapse
in on you. It looks like one or two more good explosions could
send this place tumbling down all around you, but luckily it
doesn’t shake anymore and you think you’re ok for now.
Whatever it was that was attacking you when everything got
so damn crazy seems to have left you for dead for now or else
was summoned away by something else. You feel an awful,
terrible energy permeating throughout the Mine, and you
suspect that Peabody may have been at least partially successful
in bringing through whatever it was he was aimin’ to bring in
to our world.
The now massive Void Gate shudders and begins spiraling
chaotically about. You catch brief glimpses inside of the Void
Gate and see something so horrifyingly terrible that mere words
cannot capture the grotesque nature of the thing you bear
witness to. It reaches a clawed hand out just as the Void Gate
seems like it’s going to suffer a final collapse.Still... the Earth ain’t destroyed yet, which means you at least
have a chance. You’re in the midst of collecting your stuff and
getting ready to get out of there when you begin to hear the
sounds. It’s faint at first but grows louder and what’s worse
is it’s all around you. Some times it’s the chittering of insects,
other times the moans of the dead, and still other times
it’s horrific screams of things never heard by human ears.
Whatever drew them away from you has stopped and they’re
comin’ back fer you!
It looks like it’s going to be a miracle and that thing stays
trapped in whatever hell it is, but it’s clawed hand bursts forth
from the Gate! Through some powerful magik it is able to hold
open the Void Gate and indeed starts to widen it out further,
you were too late! With a quick jerk, it suddenly rips open the
Gate, tearing a hole in the fabric of reality. That thing looks
ancient and powerful! The mere glimpse that you caught of
the thing is too much for even your hardened mind to bear and
you run back out of the Mine!Instead of the normal Failure results for this Mission,
Destroy the nearest 3 Towns. Whatever it was that
Peabody summoned through violently shook the Earth
and caused some sink holes to open up under the
surrounding countryside, destroying those Towns. You
must immediately begin the next Story Mission Last
Stand [Targa:3] before you are able to exit back to the
Overland map. Do not go back to the Overland map until
you complete that next Mission.
End of Mission
Reward:
As you run out, Father Bartholomew is there. He stops you
and calms you down. You tell him what you saw and he
considers what must be done. He says that though you were
too late to stop the Ancient One from piercing the veil between
our world and it’s twisted Void dimension. There might still be
hope if you can get back to Hedgebrook’s laboratory and find
what you can there. At the very least, you might just be able to
pick up something to try to collapse the Mine in on the whole
damn lot of abominations down there. Bartholomew says
he’ll try some prayers while you’re out to keep anything from
leaving the Mine, but he doubts if he’ll be able to hold them off
for long.
In addition to the normal Rewards for completing this
Mission (25XP and D6x$50), you can now exit this
Mine back to the Overland map. You exit the same
Mine that you originally entered into, this Mine shall be
referred to as the Objective Mine. After you enter the
nearest Town, you may immediately begin the next Story
Mission Blow the Mine [Basic:6].
59That’s when you see a woman in hysterics across the street cryin’
up a storm. She’s yellin’ about this that and the other thing, her baby
this and her baby that. Apparently someone done got dragged off in
the night, some frontier folk or somethin’. It’s hard to tell from all the
noise who she’s sayin’ it was. There were signs of a struggle leading off
towards one of the mines. None of the other townsfolk around these
parts is willing to do anything about it, what with the sheer number
of them vile creatures roaming around that area. Though yer yellah
and you’ll probably get your ass skinned and kicked real good, you
can’t bring yourselves to simply walk away. Not this time. You offer
your services to the lady, which clears up her tears some. Her offer of
a reward puts a little extra pep in your step as well. It’s all of her life
savings, but if she’s so in love with this person, who’re you to question
how much of a price she’ll put on someone else’s life?
Set Up
Choose the nearest Mine on the HexCrawl overland map
(other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone). This will be the Mine you
will be traveling to for this Mission. Otherwise, Set Up, Mission
Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives for this Mission are all the same
per the normal Search Party directions listed in the Adventure
Book. Read below for the Reward and Failure results.
End of Mission
Reward:
You found ‘em and now it’s time to bring them home to
Momma (or what’s left of them). They prolly saw some
horrible things while they was down here and they’ll never be
quite right in the head. Who knows what these horrible things
did to them while they was down here, but that’s all over now
and, truth be told, not really your problem. You’re just happy
to get some whiskey money out of this whole ordeal.
You’re turning to amscray out of there when something catches
your eye towards the back of this section. You thought it was a
wall first with all the dust and debris covering it, but you catch
something shiny reflecting your lantern light. You get a little
bit closer and start to wipe away the dirt. You feel a cold burn
shoot up your arm! A closer look at the bit you’ve wiped away
reveals that it looks to be… ice?! It’s cold underground, but you
didn’t think it was that cold!
Search Party [Basic:4]
Well that last big score in the mines didn’t exactly pan out the
way you thought it would. You’re tryin’ to find work, but honest work
is pretty damn scarce ‘round these parts, especially for people like
yourselves that can’t seem to get the job done right. You were tryin’
to get work from some rail baron you saw round here, Wilfred F.
Peabody, but he wouldn’t even give you the time of day and had
some of his thugs “escort” you away. You did hear him talkin’ to
some other fellahs though, tellin’ them he was payin’ top dollar for
anything strange they might find out in one them mines and to bring
them to some other Doctor fellah. A Dr. Hedgewick? Hedgestone?
Hedgefield? Whatever it is, Hedge-somethin’. Word is this Hedge-
fellah has a la-bora-tory somewhere about these parts where he
performs... unnatural experiments, but pays out for unnatural things to
experiment on. So there’s that, but it’s not much to go on and nothin’
solid enough to stake your next meal on.
Taking care to use some protection on your hands you wipe
the rest of the dirt that you can away and jump back at what
you’ve found here. It’s some kind of horrible thing, fully
encased in ice! You ain’t never seen anything like it, it’s like
some kind of giant roach or bug or somethin’, but there’s
somethin’ no good about the sumbitch you just can’t put your
finger on. Not only that, there seems to be quite a few of these
things all clustered together. Behind them on the walls of the
mine you see some kind of weird art and writin’ you can’t quite
recognize, as if from some long dead civilization, the horrors of
which man was never meant to know… or somethin’.
60It’s against your better judgment, but you think you might be
able to drag these things out and bring them back with you.
It might make up for not finding them dark stone deposits like
Peabody was looking for and hopefully he’ll throw in a bit of a
bonus for these things, whatever they. You’ll need to drop them
off with that Hedge-somethin’ fellah he was squawking about.
Hedgewick? Hedgegarden? Hedgetrim? Ahhh shoot!
Before you can collect your Reward, you’ll need to
travel back to the Originating Town where you got this
Mission from. If you’re bringing back the Missing Person
Alive, reduce your Overland Move Points to 4 per day
until you get back to the Originating Town, as they’re
slowing you down some. If they died, then reduce your
movement to 3 per day instead on account of havin’ to
transport the body. In addition to the normal Rewards
for completing this Mission (50XP and the Person
Rescued Reward), your next Story Mission will be Frozen
Expedition [Targa:6]. Before that Story Mission though,
you must complete two Jobs. Afterwards, to get that
Story Mission you’ll need to travel to a Random Town.
Failure:
Well... you’re pretty sure whoever it was you was lookin’ for,
wasn’t gonna make it out that place alive anyways. And when
you promised that lady you’d find her loved one and bring
them back to her all safe and sound, you was really just tryin’
to comfort her, wasn’t you. You didn’t really mean you were
gonna rescue her loved one, but it made her feel a sense of
relief just the same. You was just tryin’ to reassure her. So you
should really just try to avoid that town for as long as possible,
keep that dream alive for her, y’know? No sense in gettin’
her all worked up and depressed about somebody who was
probably gonna die on their own anyways.
Ahh, who is you kiddin’? You fucked that one up but good.
And now, whatever it was down in that mine that kidnapped
that person, well now it’s got a taste for blood, but hell if you’re
gonna do anything about it. Maybe it’ll just start goin’ after
cattle if you’re lucky...
In addition to the normal Failure result for this Mission
(each Hero takes D3 Corruption Points, ignoring
Willpower), each Hero in the Posse will also take
another D6 Corruption Points, ignoring Willpower,
if you ever step foot in that Originating Town again.
That lady wasn’t quick to forget your promise and holds
you accountable for her loved one. Your next Story
Mission will be Terror in the Night [Targa:1]. Before that
Story Mission though, you must complete two Jobs.
Afterwards, to get that Story Mission you’ll need to travel
to a Random Town.
61
Stop the Ritual [Targa:2]
There’d been a lot of talk about a dark cult around lately,
the Disciples of the Void as they like to call themselves. And it’s been
building up more than ever, almost as if they’re not even bothering to
keep themselves much a secret anymore and are preparing for some big
event. They’re acting like some kind of an outlaw gang and just rapin’
and pillaging their way across the region with impunity, but your pretty
sure they’re up to more than just mere crime. These folks is aimin’ to
sew chaos and misery as a precursor to some great and terrible magik
and you doubt they’re plannin’ on just pullin’ rabbits outta their hats.
They’ve taken some prisoners for sacrifices, looted artifacts from
quite a few Indian villages, and been scoopin’ up as much dark stone
as they can in preparation for somethin’ that’s about to go down. Law
enforcement in the region seems to either be powerless to stop them or
likely in cahoots with them and lookin’ the other way. Luckily for you,
you’ve been able to piece together their movements and you think you
know where they’re headed. You’re guessin’ that they aim to summon
forth some dark, terrible being from beyond to lay waste to Earth and
the human race, ain’t that what them cultists is always about? You figure
if you can bust into that place and beat the crap out of them loonies in
there, you just might have a chance at puttin’ a stop to their crazy plans.
It’s a long shot, but folks round here don’t really have much else but a
hope and a prayer and your guns to stand in their way.Set Up
The next few seconds are a blur... Hurricane winds., a tempest
of blood, guts, and rock... An explosion of energy.... then
Darkness... Darkness.... Darkness.... Darkness...
Choose a Random Mine on the HexCrawl Overland map
(other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone). This will be the Mine
you will be traveling to for this Mission. Otherwise, Set Up,
Mission Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives for this Mission
are all the same per the normal Stop the Ritual [Basic:2]
directions listed in the Adventure Book except that you should
add either a Void Sorcerer or an Occultist Human Enemy to
the Summoning Chamber Objective Room for the Final Fight.
This is in addition to the Epic Threat that must be fought
here as well. This extra figure represents the head cultist. Read
below for the Reward and Failure results.
Within a few minutes your eyes begin to adjust to your
surroundings, thankfully, and you see that you’re back in the
Summoning Chamber. As you get your bearings you still see
many of the bodies that you saw previously, albeit tossed about in
greater disarray than before. You notice though that Peabody is
gone, a trail of blood leading back to the entrance to this Mine tells
you which direction he’s gone. It seems he also took that Occult
Book with him too. You suspect you’ll need that thing if you want
to stop whatever his plans are as it seemed to be important to him.
End of Mission
As you burst out of the Mine Entrance, you see two riders escaping
off in the distance. One appears to be a grotesque mass of flesh
covered in rags, while the other looks to be... Dr. Hedgebrook!
That bastard is helping Peabody to escape and you need to follow
after ‘em. You reach the spot where you had left your horses at,
only to find them bastards got to ‘em first. The dang things been
killed with some dark magik, the fear still very much apparent in
their dead horse eyes, as if they were killed during a moment of
pure terror.
Reward:
All around you lie the twisted bodies of both man and monster
alike, intermixed with still burning candles and smoldering
corpses of previously slaughtered human sacrifices. It’s a
sickening display, but it fills you with a sense of relief that
you’ve finally ended this supernatural menace once and for all.
You stopped this ritual from coming to fruition and killed the
leaders of the Disciples of the Void in one fell swoop. All in all
a pretty good day.
Well sheeeeit. If that ain’t the worst part about the whole thing,
losin’ your horses. Still, you can at least follow after their horse
tracks and maybe plot out where they’re headed to. They’ve got a
helluva head start on you.
You still can’t believe that it was none other than Wilfred F.
Peabody that revealed himself to be the leader of this sadistic
cult, but sifting through the evidence it all seems to make
sense now. The hunger for Dark Stone, the keen interest in
Other World treasures., and the wealth and resources he
would’ve been able to bring to bear from his various railroad
holdings. It wouldn’t surprise you if it wasn’t Peabody himself
who arranged for the destruction of Brimstone, bringing in
excessively large quantities of Dark Stone that he knew would
lead to an event there.
In addition to the normal Reward for completing this
Mission (50XP), roll on the Mine Chart and travel there to
begin your next Story Mission Seal the Void Gate [Basic: 3]
(reroll if you get the same Mine you are currently at).
Failure:
You find an Occult Book that Peabody had been reading
from and start sifting through it’s pages. Much that you find in
there seems to confirm your thinking, but as you go through
it, you find that the ritual they were performing here is only
about halfway through the Book, there seems to be more that
follows... Before you broke up the festivities here, Peabody was
chanting something about becoming a “vessel”. What the hell
did he mean by that?
Though you only saw him briefly, he sounded like the Devil
himself and seemed to have been possessed by some kind of
otherworldly entity. It was the rail baron, Wilfred F. Peabody! It
was him and the way he was carrying on and leading the others,
he musta been behind this whole thing the whole time. He’s the
head cultist of the Disciples of the Void! No doubt owning the
rail roads helped him with establishing the Disciples of the Void
far and wide throughout Brimstone, and now whatever they’ve
been building towards is coming to fruition!
As if in answer to your musings, the circles within the room
suddenly begin to glow and crackle with energy. Perhaps the
death throes of so many creatures from the void gates within
this room was enough to kindle the flame of whatever dark
magic Peabody had been working with, perhaps this had been
his plan all along! The corpse of Peabody begins to tremble
and shake and suddenly his dead eyes open up once more, his
pupils also crackling with the same energy that appears to be
permeating throughout the room.
62
What chills your blood even more, was the entity that came
out of that Gate and... just sorta ate its way into him, and the
way Peabody was talking afterwards. It’s like this wasn’t even
the ritual they been preparin’ for, this was just the appetizer.
Peabody called himself “the vessel” for the summoning, and
he hinted that something even bigger was planned that would
bring ruination and destruction upon all mankind. You’d a
shot him right between his damn eyes if they hadn’t made a
getaway in all the confusion.However, your whole plan you had to stop the Disciples of the
Void has fallen to pieces and you’re running headlong through
these Mines to who knows where. Whatever you fought in
those Mines was too strong, too powerful and hungry for
blood. Now your backs up against the wall and if you have any
hope of doin’ anything, you’re gonna have to fight your way
out of these Mines! Off in the distance you hear the sounds of
horrific, evil things approaching...
Ignore the normal Failure results for this Mission.
Instead, the nearest 3 Towns from this Mine are
Destroyed as monsters from the Void begin pouring out
of this Mine and into the surrounding countryside. In
addition, each Hero takes D6 Wounds that carry over
into the next Mission. You must immediately begin the
Mission Last Stand [Targa:3] before you are able to exit
this Mine. Do not go back to the Overland map until you
complete that next Mission.
Terror in the Night [Targa:1]
Something terrifying clawed its way out of the Mines the other night
and made its way into town. Some folks and the lawmen tried to stop
it, but it torn them all into little itty bitty pieces and everyone is scared to
hell of that thing. Big, hulking, hairy sumbitch, uglier than sin, you can’t
miss ‘em. Though no one else around here has seen anything like it,
that sounds pretty familiar to you, though more familiar than you’d care
to admit. It’s like déjà vu all over again, cause that thing has gone and
kidnapped somebody from this town and they’re like to be dead or gonna
be dead here real soon if you don’t do somethin’ about it.
Seems like this is part of some kinda pattern though, in fact quite a
lots of folks been disappearin’ from towns all over the area. Most people
think it’s on account of the place just bein’ so damn dangerous and all the
monsters runnin’ about, but the state they been findin’ those bodies in... It’s
horrifyin’ to think about and you hope they’re just rumors, but thems that’s
been tellin’ you always seem pretty shook up and drink more whiskey than
the average person might. Somethin’s happenin’ out there and whatever
it’s culminatin’ towards can’t possibly be good.
So these people here are needin’ some help and the Mayor is
willing to pay you some money if you can bring that person back in all
safe and sound like. Seein’s how it’s been awhile since you had a proper
meal, how you can you refuse to help these good folks out?
Set Up
Choose the nearest Mine on the HexCrawl Overland map
(other than #20 Ruins of Brimstone). This will be the Mine you
will be traveling to for this Mission. Otherwise, Set Up, Mission
Goal, Special Rules, and Objectives for this Mission are all the same
per the normal Terror in the Night directions listed in the Adventure
Book. Read below for the Reward and Failure results.
63End of Mission
Failure:
Reward:
As you leave the mine, broken and defeated, the words of the foul
Monster still ring in your ears:
You stand over the quickly decaying remains of the thing that
brought so much horror to the world, its smoke hisses and a black
goo oozes from every pore of its pestilent flesh. It takes everything
you have to hold back a stream of vomit from delivering your
lunch onto the thing, which might actually be an improvement
over the current situation.
“Begon weak things! Begon you wretched apes! Before the Nameless
One leaves his horrid perch on dread Carcosa, the shadow spawn
of Shub-Niggurath shall consume this world with their insatiable
hunger. Iä! Iä! Your women shall moan and be made into
nightmare-slaves for He Who Devours Worlds and your children
shall be corrupted and made the servants for his servants. If you
would escape this fate, then join the Disciples of the Void, for only
through them will you survive...”
And just when you thought things couldn’t get worse, you look up
and away from the rotting carcass of that dread beast and up at
the walls. Ye gods, the walls... the walls! If you didn’t know better,
you’d a said the thing was a goddamn artist, but though you don’t
know art much, you wouldn’t say that all them blood and entrails
splattered all over the walls was much like a Mona Lisa or what
have you. Them people that this things been capturing, its more
like it was sacrificin’ them to some dark god from aeon’s past. The
sights of all them geometric shapes and ancient formulae scrawled
out in the brain gunk of its victims pushes you over the edge and
you spew that day’s food stuffs all over the place.
There were other words that it spoke. They lie hidden below during
the waking hours, but those are a blur and only replay themselves
some times in dreams, or are they nightmares? In them, you can still
hear the words, though far off and echoing, but by the time you’ve
awoken in a cold sweat, they’ve disappeared again. The Monster
too has disappeared from the area, surely to spread more death and
misery about. Though you’ve lost its trail, its words still haunt you.
After you’ve collected yourself, you see some pages of somethin’
all bunched up in the corner, looks like there might be writin’s
or somethin’ on ‘em. You uncrinkle some of ‘em and think that
might’ve been a mistake. These Journal Pages seem to be the
ravings of a mad man! Perhaps worse than the words themselves,
is the knowledge that those words were surely penned by a human
being. As you scan through the documents, a story begins to
unfold of a dastardly man who sold his soul to primeval gods and
has been building up his life and fortunes towards no less than
calling forth a dreaded Great Old One to Earth, with him as their
highest servant. It soon becomes apparent that this mysterious
figure is the one who brought the creature to Earth to feast on the
bodies and souls of men.
The shame of your failure travels with you as well. You’ve failed once
again and surely more lives will be lost because of your actions. And
yet still you hear the dreaded name of the cult it said, on the guarded
lips of travelers and in the whispers of drunkards no matter where
you go... Disciples of the Void. Their ilk have infiltrated the ranks of
men and women far and wide throughout the region, some even say
it was their doing that destroyed Brimstone and brought these cursed
monstrosities to Earth. Perhaps you can’t save thems that’s already
been lost, but mayhaps you can save thems that are next in line.
You’ll need to travel far and wide to find what you can about this
cult. All signs are pointin’ at them doin’ somethin’ big and it can’t be
good for humanfolk if they get away with it. You’ll need to talk to
folks and do some more investigatin’ if you’re wantin’ to get a bead
on where them bastards is hidin’ out at. So you patch your wounds
‘n head out. That monster won this day, but there’s far worse things
comin’ for this world...
And what’s more, that was just the beginning! He writes of an age-
old, slumbering city, buried in snow, from which he will fulfill his
mission to call forth a being of great power and vileness. He calls
the place “Targa, the City of the Ancients”. That don’t sound too
invitin’, but if you mean to stop this feller and his crazy followers,
the Disciples of the Void, you best be gettin’ there first.
In addition to the normal Failure result for this Mission (each
Hero takes D3 Corruption Points, ignoring Willpower),
each Hero in the Posse will also take another D6 Corruption
Points, ignoring Willpower, if you ever step foot in that
Originating Town again. The people of that Town know
you to be cowards. Your next Story Mission will be Stop the
Ritual [Targa:2]. Before that Story Mission though, you must
complete three Jobs. Afterwards, to get that Story Mission
you’ll need to travel to a Random Town.
Before you can collect your Reward, you’ll need to travel
back to the Originating Town where you got this Mission
from. If you’re bringing back the Missing Person Alive,
reduce your Overland Move Points to 3 per day until you
get back to the Originating Town, as they’re pretty badly
hurt and can’t move too much. If they died, then reduce
your movement to 3 per day until you get back to Town to
leave the corpse with the family. In addition to the normal
Rewards for completing this Mission (50XP and D6x$50),
your next Story Mission will be City of the Ancients
[Targa:4]. Before that Story Mission though, you must
complete three Jobs. Afterwards, to get that Story Mission
you’ll need to travel to a Random Town.
64And this whole time they was just usin’ stupid adventurers like
you to further their schemes. People been gatherin’ up dark stone and
handing it right over to these same bastards who’re aimin’ to bring
about the end of the world.
As you keep lookin’ through Hedgebrook’s stuff, you come across
a map of the area with notes written all over it. They’ve turned the
whole region around Brimstone into some kinda durn large-scale magik
summoning circle. All them Mines about... they’re nodes for the circle,
areas of intense magik that’ll fuel the dark energies required to summon
the being to our world! You figure, based on the center point of the
whole thing, you’ve figured out where they was headed to.... that Mine
you was just at. That Mine’s been the cult’s lair this whole time!
Fortunately, Hedgebrook also has a bunch of heavy-duty, grade A
Explosives just lyin’ around for some experiment or another that look
like they’ll be just perfect for bringing the roof down on that damned
Mine, hopefully the bastard Peabody will get caught in it too! Likely
whatever terrible, ancient evil that he’s aiming to make contact with
would kill you in an instant if you met up with it, so best to get this
done before it comes into our world.
Blow the Mine [Basic:6]
It all leads back to Peabody, that bastard tried to get you killed
and he’s lookin’ to bring forth something beyond human understanding
to our world. You make your way back to Hedgebrook’s Laboratory,
hoping you can get to the bottom of this whole thing.
After rootin’ around Hedgebrook’s lab some, you find out
about the whole business between him n’ Peabody. Peabody’s been
moonlighting as the head of a dang cult, the Disciples of the Void.
Hedgebrook has been one of his disciples and together they’ve been
doing dark, terrible things. Using Peabody’s resources with the Rail Line
and Hedgebrook’s occult knowledge, they’ve been collecting Dark Stone
and cursed artifacts to prepare for some kind of horrifying “Awakening”.
It was even one of Peabody’s storehouses of Dark Stone that blew up
Brimstone and set this whole chain of events in motion that brought all
them monsters through the Gates! But this has all just been the precursor
to something bigger, this “Awakening”.
They’ve been sacrificin’ people and performing dark rituals
to summon an eldritch being, a dreaded Great Old One, from its
cursed slumber on the ancient plane of Targa, what some have
called “the City of the Ancients”. The thing had been banished and
imprisoned there a millennia ago by the long-dead creatures that
once inhabited Targa. Now the Disciples of the Void are aimin’ to
bring it back here to Earth.
65
Well... time to gear up and head out. This is it, ain’t no turnin’
back now and if you fudge things up, ain’t no one else likely gonna be
around to complain about it.
Set Up
To begin this Mission, travel to the Objective Mine and
begin a Blow the Mine [Basic:6] Mission. There will be some
notable additions to the rules for this Mission that deviate from
the Mission detailed in the Adventure Book. Read below for
an additional rule to include (takes the place of the ‘Dangerous
Escape’ special rule). At the completion of this Mission, the
campaign is over and depending on whether you were successful
on this last Mission, read the ‘Success’ or ‘Failure’ results for the
Epilogue to this Short Story campaign. Good Luck!
Treacherous Escape (Objective)
At the end of any turn in which one or more Heroes
is standing on the Mine Entrance Map Tile as the Objective
Room, instead of rolling a special Hold Back the Darkness test,
the Mine Entrance Map Tile automatically has an Epic Threat
waiting there for the Posse. In addition to whatever is drawn
from the Epic Threat card, also add two Occultist Human
Enemies to the Fight. These are the villains Hedgebrook and
Peabody, they’re attempting to stop you from blowing up the
Mine. All Enemies must be defeated before you can escape!Epilogue
Success:
Failure:
You set the last of the Explosives and haul ass outta there, your
only regret that you can’t be there to personally watch the roof
cave in on all them bastards here. However, as you’re set to
leave the Mine, a swarm of terrible abominations blocks your
way, almost as if they knew what was about to transpire and
they wanted one last shot at takin’ you down with ‘em.
You fail to stop Wilfred F. Peabody’s crazy plans, whatever
they were, and the Unnameable Entity from beyond our
Universe he was looking to bring over makes it into our world.
A Great Old One from beyond our universe, but does it matter
now really? That thing bridges the cosmic gap between worlds
and brings untold evils upon all of humanity. All of mankind
is ground to dust before them things that walk between worlds.
Humanity was only ever an ant hill to them that was ancient
when our Universe was even young. What hope did you really
ever have of stopping terrors such as those?
And then you see them: Peabody and Hedgebrook, the two
hombres that orchestrated this whole thing. You stare them
down, but somethin’ don’t seem quite right in their eyes.
There’s a certain glow to them and you’d a sworn there wasn’t
no whites in their eyes, but you reckon that’s on account of it
bein’ so dark in here and all. They mumble some kinda jargon
out at you. Maybe it’s on account of whatever dark forces they
was messin’ with, mayhaps they was corrupted themselves or
the things they were messin’ with were too powerful for them
to contain. Whatever it is, you’re puttin’ them outta their misery
for good now.
Miraculously, you make it out of there alive and take cover
til them things from another world stop pouring forth. Thing
is, there’s no where else to go now. Every town you visit it
swarming with them inhuman monsters. In the best of cases
they’re just feasting on the bodies of innocents, in the worst of
cases... well, no sense talking about that.
You try to save those that you can, but you get the feeling that
Man isn’t long for this world. One by one, the Abomination
from beyond our world walks the Earth, devouring all the
creations of mankind. Some folks travel along with you, though
you’re not really sure where any of you is going, maybe you
can find a gate to another world, untouched by these things?
If not, you might have to kill the adults in their sleep first, then
the children. It’ll be a better end than whatever them creatures
from the Void would bring ‘em.
After you send them sumsabitches back to whatever dark gods
they was prayin’ to, you amscray outta there and just in the
nick of time too! That whole Mine blows to kingdom come
and leaves a giant crater in the ground. You hear a terrible,
unearthly how that pierces through all them tons of rock that
fell down in the collapsing mine. It’s a horrible sound that’ll
haunt you til the day that you die, but luckily for you, that day
seems to be a bit farther off than it was if you had failed. With
Peabody and Hedgebrook dead, you can rest a little bit easier,
but not without nightmares plaguing your dreams.
As you walk along a long stretch of road into what you
thought was a beautiful sunset, you realize that it’s not a
sunset at all. It’s actually an enormous explosion, wiping out
another town off the face of the Earth. They usually happen
at least once a day now and it’s hard to even find the ruins of
towns anymore, it’s just all craters now. Welcome to the end of
Humanity’s pathetic existence...
Despite their deaths though, Brimstone remains and the
creatures continue comin’ through the gates to our world. Well
at least there’s still a sunset to ride off into for now, no tellin’
what Adventures tomorrow will bring though...
6667